als UEDA DONS ik aaa. 


sacl 


a 
— 
© 
CO 
< 
Nn 
eS 
Z, 
= 
CO 
= 









PROGRESS 


AND 


meser SERVICE 


Richmond, Va. 












PROGRESS 


The Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc., takes pleasure in announcing 
an increase in its Paid Up Capital Stock from $100,000 to $150,000. The 
added capital will make it possible for the corporation to further de- 
velop its business and field of operation, and likewise to afford greater 
security for its contracts. 


DBERVICE 


The Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc., takes pride in the 3-in-1 
Unique Policy Contract it has developed and the service this contract 
renders to our group. The following testimonial gives an inkling of how 
the policyholders of the corporation respond to both the service and the 
protective feature of its contract. 












Richmond, Va., 
900 State St., 
April 30, 1928 













Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc 
Richmond, Va. 


Gentlemen : 


I wish you to know that I have been impressed, both with the value of my policy in provid 
ng weekly benetits during my recent illness and the prompt and agreeable service given by your 
representative. ; A 

Southern Aid Society of Va., ltic., is indeed both a comfort and a credit to the race. 

Respectfully yours, 


(Signed) Wiiiiam H. Dixon, M.D 








Southern Aid Society of Virginia, Inc. 


Home Office: 525-7-9 N. 2nd Street, Richmond, Va. 


Insurance Against: 
SICKNESS, ACCIDENT and DEATH 
Operating in State of Virginia and District of Columbia 


Mariners who come into the harbor of Cap Haitien take bearings on clear days on 
the Citadel of Christophe. It is a fortress that even from the sea twenty miles away, 
looms in majestic silhouette against the sky. . . . Larger and more massive than 
the Tower of London, it straddles a mountain peak three thousand feet above the 
sea. . . the most impressive structure ever conceived by a Negro’s brain, or 
erected by black hands in all the tens of thousands of years of the race’s history.” 


—From “Black Majesty,” by Vandercook. 


POCO OUOD 
% Pr 

HIS illiterate West Indian Negro was a Builder. His Citadel stands today to mock those 

who would not unite their efforts in the realization of something enduring. Should not 

this tribute to the Dream of a Builder, likewise, mock the hundreds of thousands of us in 
the larger cities of this country who sink millions of dollars in second-hand Synagogues, re- 
modeled apartment houses and the like, instead of uniting even feeble efforts to build 
enduring citadels which fortify our own courage and command the respect of others? 


In the development of our own business enterprises, particuarly of the life insurance companies, 
Negroes who pool their resources as stockholders or pay their premiums for life insurance, have 

a direct benefit in mind, which these companies respect. At the same time, the capital contri- 
buted, even in small amounts, and the accumulating reserves on the policies, in time, constitute 
vast resources to be invested. 


Even though just four years old, the Victory Life Insurance Company has already invested 
more than a quarter of a million dollars in first mortgages on property owned by Negroes. Be- 
fore the end of the year, this sum will be considerably increased. 


Perhaps you can invest your money or buy life insurance almost anywhere. But did you ever 
think how much more than just that, your connection with this Company can mean to you, 


and to others like you? Please give full name, date of birth, and occupation in writing the 
Home Office. 


Victory Life 
Insurance Company 


Home Office: 3621 South State St. 
Chicago, Ill. 
“FOR THE CROWNING ACHIBVEMENT OF 


SECURING THE ADMISSION OF TRB "$200,000.00 Capital and the Only Negro Company Operating Under the 
Victory Life Insurance Company~ Supervision of the New York Insurance Department.” 
AS THE FIRST NEGRO ORGANIZATION aa 
PERMITTED TO DO INSURANCE BUSINESS Policies may be secured from our agents or by mail anywhere 
UNDER THE RIGID REQUIREMENTS OF PHE . a 
STATE OF NEW YORK" m the United States 


July, 1928 





ot 4-4} 4 5}, 
























|| 


Complete 
Dining 
Facilities | 


a 
dbake 


\ 


Aan 


eaten nt Ahan 
lial tal fd a 
cBolebelels telaetal 


Titi mri iii) 


\ =: 4 
\ on. Ss aa 
ae : nf 


i 
Hi 


—— 
Sen 
aa 


Accommodations for Ladies and Gentlemen who seek an atmosphere of quiet refinement 
ow 


There are openings for enterprising race women to increase their earnings as PORO Agents, 
employing either their spare or full time 


— =< Write for particulars —- — 


__PORG COLLEGE 


4300 St. Ferdinand Ave. Turnbo-Malone, Founder and Sole Owner St. Louis, Mo., U.S. A. 











wi 
in 
he 
st 
T 
isk [Jniversi ‘ 
, F vers th 
You can’t afford to miss reading a Sreereey o 
IN THE CITY OF NASHVILLE ql 
th 
9 P 
DR. DuBOIS nif al 
The College 
l 1 7 : ; 
powerfu new nove Accredited four year liberal L 
arts college. With 12 major u 
departments. a 
u 
DARK PRINCESS Music Department 
College major leading to B.A. : 
HIS is Dr. DuBois’s first work of fiction since his well-remem- oe ti 
bered “Darkwater”. In it he reveals new and vigorous pow- a 
ers. The hero of the novel, a young American Negro fleeing Graduate Dep ertment i 
from racial discrimination—and the heroine—a Princess of India— Graduate work in Chemistry, C 
become involved in a movement for the emancipation of the dark English, History, Philosophy b 
races. This powerful and dramatic story moves from Berlin to and Sociology. f 
Chicago and Atlanta. $2.00 b 
met tinct —— n 
If your bookstore does not carry it, order direct from Tue Crisis office or from the 
publishers, For Particulars, Address THE DEAN : 
Harcourt, Brace and Company Fisk University ' 
! 
383 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK Nasbville, Tenn. 
0 





Crisis 





THE 


















THE: GRISIS 


A Record of the Darker Races 





W. E. Burcuarpt Du Bors, Editor and Manager 








volune 35, No.6 Contents for July, 1928 


Whole No. 213 





Page 
COVER. “Progress”. By Bernie H. Robynson. 
Ee Co any pada hk’s SES Ties s 5:90 00-0 eipie gases oe ee 221 
FRONTISPIECE. The Pickens’ Baby Fraternity, Los Angeles 
NE RR ie Es. orale 9:4, cig oe aes iis 5 0nso s clgipe toga g anes © 222 
THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS AND THE NEGRO PEOPLES. 
eS, Se errr. Serene. Pee ree Tre 
THE MAN WHO WANTED TO BE RED. A Story. By Frank 
EOI 25 io Cake en 6 Mwah ls db dS aN Od tA REA DES V0 snd OSmpat eee sees 225 
THE LITTLE PAGE. Illustrated. By Effie Lee Newsome........ 227 
THE NEGRO COMMON SCHOOL IN OKLAHOMA ............ 228 
THE N. A. A. C. P. BATTLE FRONT. Illustrated.................. 229 
ee RRC RTE RIRED ig vi 5p's caahewe tameks* cdncctesetcivesaee 230 
THE POET’S CORNER. Poems by Allison Davis, Lewis Alexander, 
Walter’ Teveretio FIawWhims  ..ii5 bc ccc gaye ccc cececdecceeesves 232 
ALONG THE COLOR LINE. Illustrated .................0.00ees 233 
a MeEORS , . ys cscaeuaah teks eecatuwlen erates csmescvees 238 
SCT ACMINT.- BOW. B.D. TO Br oa cc vgs sc ccts ccc secccesces 239 
ONGRESS has-adjourned. We “™ mies 


should feel even more relieved 
were it not for the presidential nom- 
inating conventions.—Persons wishing 
help from the Government should 
state their occupations in writing. 
Those engaged in shipping and manu- 
factures can have practically what 
they want. Persons engaged in agri- 
culture are informed that their re- 
quest is unconstitutional and that fur- 
ther application is unhecessary.— 
President Coolidge does not propose 
that the Government should interfere 
with prosperity by entering into private 
business at Muscle Shoals or Boulder 
Dam. Private business is invited, and 
urged to interfere with government just 
as much as it likes, without getting act- 
ually in jail, and there is small danger 
of that.—Gettysburg has just had a 
levely homily on peace from the man 
who has signed one of the. biggest mili- 
tary establishment bills in our history 
and who is killing white men and black 
in Nicaragua.—The North Polé*is not 
conquered, The only living human 
being who has stood upon it has black 
feet. Nobile sails alone-—The trou- 
ble with Mrs. Knapp is that she did 
not steal nearly enough to pay suc- 
cessful attorneys’ fees. She ought to 


The Crisis is published month Ye and co agionend by the National As- 

Colore Ly at - Fifth Avguee, 
T 15 cents a copy, + 50 a year. Foreign subscri; eo 75, 
he date of expiration of each su seereren is printed on t 


sociation for the Advancement o 
New York, N. Y. 


When the subscription is due a blue renewal b 


July, 1928 


lank is enclosed. The ieee 
of a subscriber may be changed as often as desired, but both the old and 


As the Crow Flies 


QU 


drop a note to Sinclair and Stewart.+- 
We hope a hundred thousand farmers 
will march on Kansas City and make 
so much noise that the nation will for- 
get Presidents and think about farm- 
ing.—Congress has given some relief 
to the poor millionaires by reducing 
their income taxes and the taxes on 
corporations. This will make the na- 
tion safe for plutocracy.—Super-power 
has been buying up schools and cor- 
porations. Even one Negro university 
got a dab. Textbooks on the munici- 
pal ownership of public utilities are 
now beginning to read_ right.—In 
China, children of six are working 
fourteen hours a day for 2¥%c in fac- 
tories owned by rich Englishmen and 
Americans. This is the Yellow Peril. 
—The world was outraged when Rus- 
sia arrested a group of engineers, in- 
cluding a number of Germans. All 
they had been guilty of was ruining 
Russian coal mines for the sake of 
English and German owners.—Three 
hundred years ago this year John 


scripts and 


wrapper. assumes no respo 


ees 


cy BE August Crisis will be 
our 17th Annual Educa- 
tion Number. We desire for 
publication therein pictures of 
all colored students who have 
made distinguished records. We 
shall also publish in that num- 
ber “Our Negro Intellectuals” 
by Allison Davis and a report 
of the 19th Annual Conference 
of the N. A. A. C. P. a 
Angeles. 


we 


\\sineiileipemenenmememmesslil™ 


Bunyan was born.—Christians and 
Quakers are still talking about Union. 
They will be, when the trumpet 
sounds.—Noguchi, greatest of the 
students of life, is dead in Africa. He 
was yellow, but the Rockefeller Insti- 
tute endured him.—The nations are 
all about to denounce War, explaining 
meantime that they don’t mean it.— 
The net annual income from vice in 
Chicago is Thirteen and a half mil- 
lion dollars. No estimate has been 
made for New York.—The Socialists 
have triumphed in Germany, but the 
Government at Washington still lives. 
—Our hats are off to the striking 
Pullman Porters. May they fight the 
first fight of faith in Negro labor.— 
The purchase and sale of Negro dele- 
gates from the rotten boroughs of the 
South is again the first step of the 
Presidential Campaign. — England 
gambles for millions on horses. We 
gamble for thousands of millions on 
stocks.—Vilna belongs to Lithuania. 
Poland stole it. Lithuania wants it 
back. “Shame on you,” cries Sir 
Austin Chamberlain.—Flying men and 
women are crossing the world.—Con- 
gress appropriated 41% billions of 
money. Out of this, $2,750,000,000 


was for war. 


new address must be given and two weeks’ gation is nece. 
drawings relating to cotenee 
be accompanied by return postage and w 
cl ser Nevankor'S, ‘tath, ob tie tae ie as ee 

ass matter November , at ¢ st 
under the act of March 8, 1879. —— a New orb, ihc 


rT} are me, desired.» They ma must 
Crisis uses every care it 
@s second 


221 


































oT RR ER RI: REE 


cre sicbanialseaain totrenraervetreaer=treaaltiee te aaRET CARER 


sect 


Saas a bad . spins ESR tunemseee 
se na pa here ae Re eS TR A OER Ae Le LOI TI 


elt aot 








The Pickens’ Baby Fraternity, Chapter One, Los Angeles (See page 236) 
Marylin F. Williams, President (center) 
Leola A. Beavers . (abowe) Arthur Browning, Jr. 
Vice-President Mignen Morris, Winifred Smith, Claude Grimes, Sergeant-at-Arms 
Raymond M,. Matthews Sammy Austin, John Turner, Melvin Jackson Robert O. Spikes 
Secretary (below) Honor Member 
Nancy B. Balch Lois Donaldson, Dorothy Cornelius, Lewis Hudson, Barry Hudson 
Treasurer Beverly Fields, Jr., Jackie Newman, Eunice Lear Honor Member 
(See also page 229) 


“* THE Crisis 













most part, counted in dollars 

and cents the gains that had 
accrued to them by the Treaty of Ver- 
sailles: The American Negro public 
counted their gain by less tangible 
means but none the less real. How- 
ever, it is only now, almost nine years 
after the signing of the Treaty, that 
the public mind realises the magnitude 
of the problems which are the interna- 
tional heritage of the day. To the 
American Negro, Versailles has come 
to mean probably the most far-reach- 
ing, modern event in the lives of their 
African brothers. Therefore, I write 
these lines to indicate the outstanding 
points at which the League of Nations 
touches directly the lives of Negro peo- 
ples and the consequent effect there- 


upon. 


zr HE American public, for the 


The Mandate System 

T was in the dismemberment of the 
Turkish and German empires that 
the mandates system was conceived—a 
system that, given birth at the Treaty 
of Versailles, has had far-reaching ef- 
fects upon the people of the South Sea 
Islands, Samoa, Nauru, Lebanon, Irak, 
Palestine and Trans Jordan, and the 

former German colonies in Africa. 

The Peace Conference assumed the 
task of devising measures for the pro- 
tection of these people who were in a 
position to be exploited economically 
and culturally. In consequence thereof 
Article 22 of the Covenant of the 
League of Nations provides: “To 
those colonies and territories which, as 
a consequence of the late war have 
ceased to be under the sovereignty of 
the States which formerly governed 
them and which are inhabited by people 
not yet able to stand by themselves un- 
der the strenous conditions of the mod- 
ern world, there should be applied the 
principle that the well-being and de- 
velopment of such peoples form a sa- 
cred trust of civilization and that se- 
curities for the performance of this 
trust should be embodied in the 
Covenant. 

“The best method of giving practi- 
cal effect to this principle is that the 
tutelage of such peoples should be en- 
trusted to advanced nations which, by 
teason of their resources, their experi- 
ence, or their geographical position, 
can best undertake this responsibility 
and which are willing to accept it, and 


July, 1928 


The League of Nations and the 
Negro Peoples 


By MABEL JANET BYRD 


that this tutelage should be exercised 
by them as mandatories on behalf of 
the League.” 

As a result of the provisions of Ar- 
ticle 22 of the Covenant and Article 
119 of the Treaty of Versailles, in 
which “Germany renounces in favour 
of the Principal Allied and Associated 
Powers all her rights and titles over 
her overseas possessions”, the mandate 
system is at present applied to all the 
former German Colonies in Africa. 


ITH the exception of a transfer 

which occurred between the 
original mandatories and the rectifica- 
tion of frontiers between contiguous 
areas administered between Great Brit- 
ain and Belgium, and Great Britain 
and France, the allocation of the man- 
dates made in the following manner, 
became effective for C mandates, July 
1920, and the B mandates were con- 
firmed by the Council in December 
1922: 


Ex- 
Mandate Mandatory Class Ruler 
Tanganyika Great Britain Germany 
“ 


B 
Ruanda-Urundi Belgium B 
British Togo Great Britain B 
French Cameroons France 
French Togo France B 
S. West Africa Union of S. Africa C 


“ 


“ 


& 


The mandatory is required to ad- 
minister the territory “under condi- 
tions that will guarantee: freedom of 
conscience and religion, the prohibition 
of abuses such as the slave trade. the 
arms traffic, the liquor traffic; and the 
prevention of military training of the 
nations for other than police purposes 
and the defence of the territory. It is 
further incumbent upon the mandatory 
power to promote the welfare of the 
indigenous population and have due 
respect to secure equal opportunities 
for the trade and commerce of the 
other members of the League. Finally, 
the mandatory powers are obliged to 
make annual reports to the Council of 
the League and in order that the Coun- 
cil may be able to examine these re- 
ports in a capable manner, the Perm- 
anent Mandate Commission has been 
formed to advise it on all matters re- 
lating to the observance of mandates. 
The main principle of the mandates 
system is national administration and 
responsibility by the Mandatory Pow- 
ers, but in conformity to certain special 
international obligations. This, then, 
is the form of government which since 
1922 has been responsible for the well- 


being of over 12,000,009 Africans and 
indirectly for many millions more. 


HERE is no doubt that the inter- 

national character of the man- 
dates system has had a number of salu- 
tary effects, both upon the mandated 
territories and upon other colonial 
areas. The publicity given to the re- 
ports of the mandatories insures a 
thorough investigaticn into the condi- 
tions in the mandates from every point 
of view, and the right of the commis- 
sion to ask for supplementary informa- 
tion is uncontested. 

A case in point was the Bondelzwart 
affair of 1922, when the Bondelzwart 
tribe, driven to desperation by the ra- 
cia) prejudice and the unfair taxation 
of the Mandatory power, and hoping 
at the introduction of the mandate sys- 
tem for a restoration of their old hunt- 
ing and grazing grounds taken from 
them by the German-, refused to pay 
the tax assessed at an impossibly high 
figure. “Determined to inflict a severe 
and lasting lesson upon the tribe,” a 
massacre of Bondels ensued in which 
machine guns, aeroplanes and moun- 
tain artillery were used against de- 
fenceless natives. The South African 
delegation at the Assembly of 1922 
laid the papers containing the story be- 
fore the Assembly. Mr. Bellegrade, 
the delegate from Hayti, took up the 
case, and moved for a committee. Ulti- 
mately, the Permanent Mandates Com- 
mission made an inquiry and the state- 
ment of the Chairman, Marquis Al- 
berti Theodoli contains some interest- 
ing aspects of the principles upon which 
the mandates system is based. These 
extracts illuminate not only the theoret- 
ical workings of the Permanent Man- 
dates Commission, but also the practi- 
cal applications, 


66 IRST in importance come the 

interests of the natives, secondly 
the interests of the whites... The 
Permanent Mandates Commission in 
my opinion while seeking to adapt its 
colonial experience to realising in prac- 
tice the principle of mandates, must 
also express its opinion when called 
upon to do so, in the light of the special 
principle underlying this institution 
and not according to the general prin- 
ciples of colonial administration . . . 
The Permanent Mandates Commission 
is agreed as to the precarious nature of 


223 





























































































































































































































































































the information on which it has to 
base its judgment. However incom- 
plete the information my fundamental 
impression is that the administration 
of the territory of South West Africa, 
before, during and after the incident, 
seems above all to have been concerned 
with maintaining its own authority, 
in defence of the interests of the minor- 
ity consisting of the white population.”’ 
These extracts illumine not only the 
theoretical workings of the Permanent 
Mandates Commission but also the 
practical application. 

As the system stands today, it is 
generally agreed that it is a step far in 
advance of the usual colonial systems. 
And yet there are these outstanding 
deficiencies. The right of petition al- 
most nullifies itself for natives from 
mandated areas are not represented in 
the Permanent Mandates. Commission ; 
petitioners are not permitted to present 
their case in person, nor can they en- 
gage anyone else to appear for them. 
On the other hand, the representative 
of the government can be present and 
can be heard at the Commission ses- 
sions; the commission itself is severely 
handicapped by the inability to make 
enquiries of the conditions’on the spot, 
for it is obvious that the real success of 
the system is dependent largely upon 
the accurate knowledge of local condi- 
tions in mandated areas. The League 
has not yet attacked the fundamental 
problem of safeguarding the rights in 
native land. If the process of aliena- 
tion continues, the African population 
will become landless and the principal 
reason for the existence of the man- 
date system will have passed. 


The Slavery Convention 


- T would be interesting to indicate 

the various steps that have been 
taken internationally against the trade 
and the institution of slavery. There 
is space here only for an indication ot 
the most important conventions in this 
long battle of over one hundred years. 
The General Act of Berlin “bound the 
signatory powers to suppress the slave 
trade by land and slavery itself within 
their territory in the Congo Basin” ; the 
treaty of Brussels 1890, provided for 
the powers holding colonies in Africa 
to stop slave trading within their ter- 
ritories and to co-operation with. their 
neighbours in making easy the pursuit 
of slaves. By the Treaty of St. Ger- 
main, 1919, each Power agreed to se- 
cure the complete suppression of slavery 
in all its forms and of the slave trade 
by land and sea. 

Such is the historical background 
against which the Slavery Convention 
of 1926 was placed. It is not necessary 
to say that the results of the previous 
conventions have been attended with 
only partial success. Otherwise there 


224 


would have been no need for the Coun- 
cil of the League of Nations deriving 
its power from Article 23 of the Cove- 
nant, which pledges all member States 
to secure just treatment for natives 
inhabitants of territories under their 
control, to create a temporary Slavery 
Commission for the study of the condi- 
tions. This Commission reported to 
the Council, in 1925, the urgency of 
the problem as was shown by the ac- 
companying evils in connection with 
slavery, the slave trade and forced la 
bour. In nineteen areas in Europe, 
Asia and Africa there still exists slave 
trading, slave raiding and slave mar- 
kets, and 3,000,000 men, women ani 
children are pawns of the system. In 
addition, the extent and prevalence of 
peonage, so-called adoption, debt slav- 
ery and concubinage, actually forms of 
slavery—were exposed by the Com- 
mission. The Commission, as a result 
of its labours proposed a new interna- 
tional convention on slavery, to which 
all states, whether member: of the 
League or not, should be invited to 
subscribe. It was further suggested 
that the Convention should deal not 
only with slavery but also with systems 
of forced labour analogous to slavery. 


HE Draft Convention followed 

and was sent forth to all member 
states and in September 1926, the As- 
sembly approved a revised form of the 
Convention which was signed on Sep- 
tember 25, 1926, by 25 states. This 
Convention contains the agreement by 
the Powers to take action within their 
own boundaries and to limit the right 
of their own citizens to hold slaves; 
and furthermore, to take all necessary 
measures to prevent compulsory or 
forced labour from developing into con- 
ditions analagous to slavery. To date, 
21 states have ratified the Convention. 
And on January 1, 1928, Sierra Leone 
freed some 2,000,000. On the whole, 
however, the results of the Slavery 
Convention are yet to be achieved. The 
Slavery Convention presents many 
weaknesses. Compulsory labor may 
be exacted for public purposes, whether 
essential or not, and it need not be paid. 
Even compulsory labor for private 
purposes under the conditions named 
above is tolerated until each govern- 
ment decides to abolish it. The inter- 
national conscience, as shown by the 
history of international action against 
slavery has developed slowly. One 
wonders if the modern realization of 
the inter-dependence of labour stand- 
ards between countries will not hasten 
the total abolition of this form of la- 
bour. 


Forced Labor. 
ECENT years have emphasized 


the dependence of modern indus- 


try upon the class of raw materials 
which are chiefly obtained from those 
countries where Negro labor is indj. 
genous. To satisfy this growing de- 
mand for these raw materials, ever. 
increasing numbers of Negro labor are 
answering the call for production. And 
so with the entrance of colonial areas 
into the general world economy there 
has come increasing pressure on native 
labour to produce and to create the pre- 
condition of production, i. e. roads and 
railways. Much of this labour is forced 
labour: that is, the native is compelled 
to work for a private employer, for the 
latter’s benefit. Even where such 
forced labour, direct in its method, is 
forhidden, forced Jabour is obtained by 
such means as high taxation, restric- 
tion of the use of land, or the punish- 
ment of “vagrancy”’. 

The report of the Temporary: Slave 
Commission contained specific refer- 
ences to kinds and conditions of work 
analogous to slavery, which are found 
in Asia, Africa and other countries, 
The conditions which accompany 
forced labour are as follows: forced 
labour is demanded for private as well! 
as public purposes; it is called out at 
harvest time and upon occasions which 
domestic demands are made for hunt- 
ing, community fishing, etc.; it breaks 
up family and tribal life:, it is often 
not remunerated; when remunerated, 
not at the prevailing market rate; 
women and children are called out for 
public works, and often men old ana 
unfit for work; natives have been taken 
months’ journeys from their homes into 
conditions far removed from their 
usual habitudes; head porterage has 
been a usual means of conveyance of 
products, heavy loads at great dis- 
tances, and even women and children 
are so employed; discipline and pun- 
ishment, most brutal and cruel are vis- 
ited upon these workers in many parts 
of Africa. 

The economic, social, political and 
educational developments of the native 
are sealed for generations to come 
unless a draft convention or forced la- 
bour will aim at the abolition of all 
forced labour, except for such emerg- 
ency purposes as floods, fires, etc. 

It is well that the first item on the 
agenda of the session of the Interna- 
tional Labour Conference to be held 
during 1929 is the question of forced 
labour. This decision was taken by 
the Governing Body of the Interna- 
tional Labour Office in October 1927 
after consideration of the deliberations 
of the Committee of Experts on Native 
Labour who resolved that “forced la- 
bour should cease at the earliest pos- 
sible moment”. 

These, then, are the main points at 
which the League of Nations touches 


(Will you please turn to page 242) 
Tue Crisis 












NCE upon a time in the far away 
O Kingdom of Ur there lived a 
young man called Juda. Juda lived 
in an age when science ruled the world. 
Men who had gone before him had 
wrestled with the problems of the uni- 
verse, torn from nature her innermost 
secrets, solved her deepest mysteries, 
harnessed her to earthly machines to 
do their work. It was a golden age; 
riches flowed throughout the land, 
great buildings thrust climbing towers 
into the sky. The streets were filled 
with busy people rearing fresh columns 
to the Gods they worshipped; great 
schools rose at every hand where the 
young learned from the old how to fill 
their pockets with gold, how to become 
worshippers in the Temples of the 
Golden Calf. But these things meant 
little to Juda; for Juda’s people were 
Greeners, and the Greeners were like 
the earth under foot and the dogs in 
the alley. 

Now it so happened that the kings 
and princes of the land, and all their 
busy followers were people of great 
beauty, tall and straight with long 
hair, golden as the sky at the break of 
day, and their skins a gorgeous red, 
like the heart of a flame, and a blaz- 
ing ruby and the western sky when 
the sun goes down. , And they owned 
the land, and possessed all that was in 
it, and far back in their history, the 
councilors and the elders realized that 
some one was needed in the kingdom 
to till the fields, and hew the wood 
and draw the water. So the traders 
manned their ships and sailed across 
the seas to a far country where they 
found a peculiar people roaming the 
forests. These people wore no clothes, 
and lived in huts and had no money, 
but their bodies were strong and their 
muscles glistened in the sun and their 
skin was green, green as an emerald 
is green and the leaves of a laughing 
tree and water in deep places. The 
great red men looked upon them and 
shook their heads wisely and said one 
to the other: 

“These people cannot talk as we 
talk; they worship no gods like ours; 
they do not live in beautiful houses 
as we do.” 

And others said, “Yes, and they 
toam the woods like beasts, and they 
laugh and make merry, but have no 
clothes, nor books, nor churches. Surely 
they have no souls, but their bodies are 
strong and we can use them.” 

And they all agreed, “Yes, they have 


no souls and we can use them.” 


July, 1928 


The Man Who Wanted to Be Red 


A Story 
By FRANK HORNE 


gt 





wae 


A Fairy Tale for Children of 
the Earth 


Rl eee se. 





O they fell upon these people, who 

were Juda’s people, and took them 
from their homes, and the forests they 
seemed to love and tied them up like 
cattle and threw them into the dark 
holds of the ships and set sail for 
home. All the way back, these green 
women moaned, and searched for their 
children, and made sounds very much 
like red people in agony, and the big 
green men, bound and tied, sat and 
stared like children lost in a wood, 
grown tired with futile running. And 
sometimes down in the dark bowels of 
the ships they sang, and their singing 
was like the breaking of many hearts. 
But the great red men on the decks 
stopped up their ears and said one to 
the other, ‘““They are beasts and have 
no souls,” and went their way. 

And so Juda’s people came to the 
Kingdom of Ur and were locked in 
hovels away from their forests and 
great red men with whips, and lashes 
were put over them; they were driven 
into the fields before the sun had risen, 
and all the long day till darkness 
came, the green people worked in the 
teeming sun; and sometimes, when the 
sun was too hot and the labors hard, 
they would pause in their work, and 
the beaters would fall upon them with 
whips and lashes, and curses and drive 
them back to their labors. Through- 
out the length and breadth of the land, 
these slaves became known as 
“Greeners,” and were regarded like 
beasts of the field. 


UDA’S people had lost their free- 

dom, and their homes, and their 
families and the comradeship of the 
forests, and instead they were bound 
into slavery, crowded into dirty huts, 
beaten at the least provocation, and 
still their laughter ran like the rippling 
waters of their far country and they 
sang their songs to their own gods. In 
the deep still nights the red men awak- 
ened to hear sad, beautiful melodies 
rising out of the huts and some of 
them tossed in their beds and wondered 
at this thing. And soon, too, other red 
men looked upon these green women 
and found their bodies fair, and took 
them, so that there gradually arose a 
race of people neither red nor green, 


but shading from the paleness of a 
summer sky before the dawning to 
the soft whiteness of new fallen snow. 
These people became known as the 
“whites” and they were hated on all 
sides. The red men saw some of their 
blood in them and hated them for it; 
the greeners, while these were their 
own children, were uncomfortable in 
their presence, so in the Kingdom of 
Ur, the “whites” became the outcasts 
and the scourged of both races. 


UDA was a “white”. His father 

was a Red man called Moda 
from a far country. He was a scien- 
tist and a chemist of great renown. 
Juda’s mother was a greener who had 
slaved in Moda’s house. Moda had 
been a kind man. He studied long in 
old mysterious books; sometimes he 
worked for days in his laboratory at 
the top of the house, days in which he 
neither slept nor paused for eating. 
And Juda’s mother administered to 
him, and cared for him and fed him. 
As Juda grew, Moda took him into 
his work room; slowly disclosed to him 
his discoveries, taught him to analyze, 
to create, to understand. Juda’s mind 
was keen and his hand nimble. As 
Moda aged, he leaned more and more 
upon Juda, till one dark night, after 
three uninterrupted days on one experi- 
ment, even while he was calling off to 
Juda the readings on the thermometer, 
he crumpled and fell before the appara- 
tus. Juda jumped to his side. Moda 
looked into his eyes, whispered “Juda,” 
softly, like a dying wind in a strong 
tree, and spoke no more. 

And Juda worked on in the days to 
follow. When Moda had died, they 
were in the midst of an awesome dis- 
covery. Together they had built a 
vacuum tube, larger, more powerful 
than had ever been made. They had 
liberated a flying stream of electrons 
catapulting through space with the 
velocity of light. In the path of this 
terrific bombardment, they had placed 
many objects and noted many won- 
drous changes. Placed in a lead 
chamber at the end of the tube, he had 
seen the electronic stream change rab- 
bit’s hair snow white after an exposure 
of one-tenth of a second, seen it change 
white salt to brown, and the pure 
white glass of his apparatus to a deep 
royal purple. 


NE night many months after 
Moda’s death, Juda lay in bed 


and as was his custom before he fell 


225 











a 


















































































































































































































































































































asleep, he thought of his experiments ot 
the day. That very morning he had 
subjected three blades of grass to the 
mysterious reagent he had discovered. 
When he turned off the current and 
opened the lead chamber, where the 
three green blades had lain, were three 
red streaks, red like the heart of a 
flame and a blazing ruby and the west- 
ern sky when the sun goes down. Now 
as he thought of it, a sudden tre- 
mendous thought fired his brain. He 
shivered with the audacity of the idea. 
It startled him so that he rose quickly, 
drew on his robe, and climbed quietly 
to his laboratory. The moon flooded 
the room with a silver flood ; the glass- 
ware and metal of his complex appara- 
tus gleamed at him like some grinning, 
twisted gargoyle. He pressed the 
switch and awakened the room with 
light. He stepped hurriedly to the 
apparatus, opened the door of the 
chamber and there, as if to clear his 
doubt, lay the three red wisps, just as 
he had left them. His hands trembled 
as he held them and an ecstatic joy- 
ousness pervaded his being. He shut 
off the light, ran down the stairs to 
the door of his mother’s room. He 
opened it quietly and looked in. She 
was sleeping peacefully; and his eyes 
looked long upon the gorgeous green 
of her arm, which had slipped from 
under the cover. He hesitated for a 
moment, then closed the door softly 
and returned to his room. He threw 
himself upon his bed but the wildness 
of his vision would not let him sleep. 
He tossed and turned and his thoughts 
ran riot till the first grayness crept up 
into the sky. He heard his mother 
stirring down below. He drew on his 
clothes and hurried to her room. As 
she sat upon the side of her bed and he 
at her knees, Juda, in a flood of eager 
language, told her of his experiment 

. of his discovery . . . of his own 
vision. She listened closely, her eyes 
growing tender as her son breathlessly 
unfolded his plan. He told her of his 
hope and his desire. He asked that she 
help him. With calm resignation, she 
answered him: 

“Yes, my Juda.” 

He left her and rushing aloft to his 
laboratory returned in a trice with a 
bottle, some gauze and cotton and a 
thin sharp scalpel in his hands. His 
mother had meanwhile bared her body 
to the waist, and at his request she 
lay at full length upon the bed, with 
the broad expanse of her back upper- 
most. Juda had become again the 
eager scientist, like a full-bred hound 
upon a scent. He knelt over his mother 
and swabbed a space in the small of 
her back, and then verv carefully, 
painstakingly with the little blade, he 
peeled off a two-inch square of her 
emerald skin. Every now and then a 


226 








slight quiver of the flesh was the 
mother’s only response. He deftly 
dressed the open place, placed the 
precious green square between two thin 
glass plates, kissed his mother silently 
upon the cheek, and ran again for the 
stairs, leaving the door swinging open 
in his haste. 


NTO his laboratory again, and now 

all his fervor and haste seemed to 
have left him. Slowly and carefully, 
with continual reference to his notes 
he remounted his apparatus; made sure 
of all the connections, all the sup- 
ports, all the glassware; made new 
parts, tested out old ones, checked the 
electric circuit, modulated its force, 
tried auxiliary experiments to be sure 
his apparatus was ready and correct 
in every detail. 

At last all was ready. The sun 
was already sinking like a flaming 
ball, when he slowly opened the heavy 
leaden door of the exposure chamber, 
and placed in position the glass plates, 
containing between them the little 
square of his mother’s skin. He closed 
the door firmly, took one final look at 
the vacuum tube, then with a last 
audible intake of breath, he threw the 
switch which sent the current leaping 
across the electrodes of the gigantic 
tube. A low, ominous hum filled the 
air, and slowly a glowing aura sur- 
rounded the end of the tube and he 
seemed to see the flying ions catpulting 
into the leaden chamber with the speed 
of a ray of light. His chronometer lay 
upon the stone table and his eyes were 
glued upon its crawling hand. . . one 
minute . . . two minutes . . . 25 sec- 
onds . . . With a quick motion, he 
threw back the switch. The humming 
ceased, the aura gradually faded and 
after waiting an eternal space, he 
threw open the door of the chamber, 
reached in and drew forth the two 
glass plates, and between them he saw 
a square of gorgeous red . . . red like 
the heart of a flame, and a blazing ruby 
and the western sky where the sun was 
even now setting like a fiery ball. A 
cry of ecstatic joy arose in his heart. 
He wanted to shriek from his windows 
into the streets below, “Eureka! 
Eureka!” Then suddenly there seemed 
to wail through the recesses of his 
mind, the sorrow of his beloved peo- 
ple .. . the sorrow song of the 
Greeners ... 


Go down 

Moses 

Wav down in Egypt’s Land 
Tell old Pharaoh 

To let ma’ people go— 


His heart swelled in his breast. He 
would be a prophet to his people, he 
would strike“off from their hearts the 
chains of slavery, he would bring joy 


and peace to the down-trodden, A 
golden, spilling cry seemed to fill the 
sky, darkening before the dying ray, 
of the sinking sun. : 


UDA ran to his mother; shared 

with her his precious secret, but 
she, though she wept in joy at his 
triumph, said no word, soothing his 
throbbing head against her breast. 
How long he lay there, he did not 
know, but night had fallen and he 
left the house to walk into the streets. 
He felt the impulse to feast his eyes 
upon the things he would change. His 
path carried him past the dirty hovels 
of the Greeners, the children rolling 
and playing in the filthy streets; the 
big green men, drunk with bodily 
fatigue, sprawled upon the floors, 
asleep or hopelessly staring into space; 
the green women futilely striving for 
some order in the chaos. These things 
had saddened Juda, but tonight a wild 
joy was his; those peole too, would 
have the beauties and the joys of life; 
they too, would inherit the riches of 
the Kingdom of Ur; they, too, would 
bear Red children! 

Farther up he went into the rich 
city past the glorious houses of the 
Red men, past their temples of worship 
and their Buildings of Trade and Juda 
was thrilled with the joy of it; these, 
things, too, would be shared by his 
people. He paused in front of a beau- 
tiful bazaar, gay with lights and color. 
He heard sharp words and stepped 
closer to the door. There stood a 
Greener, who seemed to be attempting 
to buy something. The Red men 
snarled at him like angry dogs, and 
when he quietly replied, they struck 
him in the mouth and the blood came. 
Another hit him from behind, then 
several set upon him and threw him 
from the place, his body falling at 
Juda’s feet with a sickening thud. The 
Red men turned, not even looking to 
see whether he lived or not. The joy 
died suddenly in Juda’s heart. He 
lifted the Greener to his feet; the man 
looked sadly into Juda’s eyes, and say- 
ing nothing, dragged his broken body 
off into the night. Juda looked back 
and the Red men had forgotten and 
gone their ways; he looked off in the 
dark and he seemed to hear a voice, 
saying 

Forgive them 

They know not what they do... 


STRANGE feeling arose in 

Juda, and as he turned his steps 
for home, an ever growing doubt 
seemed to be tearing at the glory of his 
dream. Would his discovery make his 
people’s hearts like that ? Would it make 
them beasts too . . . would it make 
their hearts hard like these buildings? 
(Will you please turn to page 242) 


Tue Crisis 





Sa, 9 


ee ee | —J? ee 


The Little Page 


Calendar Chat 


JE field artillery is now in action 

‘with nightly firework displays. 
One need not wait till the fourth. The 
fireflies are the wheat and millet field 
artillery. And July is one of their 
busy months. We children used 
cruelly to cram them into a bottle to 
enjoy their radiance. At twilight our 
firefly pursuit would begin. And soon 
our hands would be strong with the 
rank weedy smell of the silent little 
glow worms. Perhaps if they could 
have made some sound in protest we 
would not have handled them so ruth- 
lessly. As it was, they seemed like 
animated toys. 

When we looked at them in the 
morning—those that had not made 
their escape—we would find them like 
Pierrot’s candle in the old song, out. 
The glow of the under side would be 
cream colored, the plain little bug 
dull brown, the fun of the fields all 
over. Yet there were thousands left 
to sparkle on in the meadows and to 
lead the children on twilight trips for 
the little winged lanterns. 


The Cobweb 


BUSY spider spinning, 

Unwinding as you go, 

How is a cobweb fashioned? 
I'd really love to know. 


Sometimes you spring forth swiftly, 
Or next with movements slow, 
You climb a strand one moment, 
Or maybe swing down low. 


Over the dewy grasses 
Just on a silver thread, 
Building your swinging bridges 
That only dreams might tread, 


Almost too light and airy 

For anything but dreams, 
Bubbles or aster petals, 
Dewdrops or small sunbeams. 


Sweet Peas 


THE sweet pea lanes are fresh and gay 
And pink and blue and green, 

The sweet peas grow row next to row 
And crickets walk between. 


I'm sure they never see the blue 
Or pink above their heads, 

The lavender and creamy streaks, 
The white and sunset reds. 


Were I a cricket in sweet peas 
I'd have a lot of fun. 

The blooms would be 

Lanterns for me 

All lighted by the sun. 


July, 1928 


By EFFIE LEE NEWSOME 


This cat was left with little Juliett Jones 

at Atlanta by a teacher who pays the cat’s 

board. Juliett writes that the cat not only 

plays ball but follows her to school like 
Mary's lamb. 


Our Cat _ 
CEs cat just lies out in the sun, 


And raises her forepaws. 
She stretches them out stiff and strong 
Till you can see her claws. 


She’s lying there against the fence, 
Sometimes she shuts her eyes, 
Sometimes she sticks her red tongue out 
And makes her whiskers rise. 


She looks so lazy lying there, 

It scarcely seems to me 

That she can be the same quick cat 
That scampers up the tree. 


Strange Turtle 


TURTLE with a tiny head 

And little streaks of Chinese red 
Came trotting gaily to the lawn 
One summer day at early dawn. 
I tapped him lightly with a stick, 
He drew his head and legs in quick. 
Strange turtle with your streaks of red 
And folding legs and folding head! 


Pigeon Necklaces 
CoBAy Pigeon wears a nicklace green, 


Friend Tan-and-White wears rose. 
A fairer sight you’ve never seen 
Than when each necklace glows. 


It’s like the light on Peacock’s plume, 

Or gardens glazed with dew, 

Or like green pearl in rough shells’ 
gloom 

When tides sweep shells to you. 


Moonlight 


AIRIES are children of the moon. 
They are little folk with graceful 
bodies and gaudy wings like those of a 
butterfly. So you see they can walk or 


fly which ever they choose to do. 
Every month Mother Moon lets them 
come to the earth to frolic about be- 
cause there are so many nice play- 
grounds here. The fairies, however, 
like best to play in the heart of a 
forest or beside a stream. I think that 
must be because of the music. For 
fairies like music, too. And the wind 
as it sighs through the pine trees sounds 
like a violin, while the ripple of water 
over stones is like the music of a harp. 

The fairies choose night time for 
their frolics, because they do not like 
to be disturbed at play. Then Mother 
Moon smiles her brightest smile to 
give them a light to dance by. And 
what a beautiful light! It’s almost as 
bright as day, but much softer and 
more beautiful. 

But Mother Moon knows that to 
be good fairies, her children must work 
as well as play. So after a holiday of 
a couple of weeks, she sends for them 
to come home. And home they come 
eager to get to work after such a jolly 
time. They scrub, sew and bake. And 
Mother Moon pleased with her busy 
little workers smiles, but this time not 
so radiantly as to be reflected on the 
earth. For her children are near her 
and such radiance would only dazzle 
their eyes. 

Ota CaLHouUN MooreHEap. 


Poems 
By Frances Ball (13 years old) 
SMILES 


Smiles are like the sunbeams 
Darting here and there 

A single happy smile it seems 
May make a dark day fair. 


THE SINGING CLASS 


As I was skipping o’er the meadow grass 

What should I spy but a singing class 

I heard them singing in the old oak tree 

And I heard the master chirp one-two- 
three. 


The birdies were singing so sweetly each 
song 

I stayed there and listened the afternoon 
long 

And then when the evening breezes had 
blown 

I happily flew away to my home. 


SUNRISE 
Rising o’er the purple mountain 
Shedding far its light 
Red and round like a fire ball 
Leaving far behind the night. 
Thus the day begins anew 
Heralded by the rising sun 
Far away a rooster crows, 
Another sign that day’s begun. 


227 


ished ASAE hgh ty, 8 sal Shes a er 
Ba eng tat irs accra iio 2 > So 


in ei et 


TT 












































HE separate Negro schools of 

Oklahoma are supported from 
current taxation. That means, that if 
they have good buildings and mainten- 
ance, they have poor teaching, and if 
the teachers are well-paid, they have 
usually poor buildings and inadequate 
equipment. 

Throughout the state in general, the 
Rosenwald program has been of incal- 
culable assistance in school construc- 
tion. The following table illustrates 
the types of Negro schools in the county 
districts : 


TEACHERS 
One Two Three More Total 

E>. Satan ae aee 8 2 10 
SEY sh ingreunws 7 1 7 
Geddes ....<0 ceweaale 7 1 8 

OS ee 
Canadian .......... 2 2 
EC << vseyaensss 8 2 2 12 
Cherokee .......... 5 5 
SN <6 scenes ax 14 6 2 2 22 
iatitita x snd s wets S - 
Cleveland .......... 1 1 2 
Commanche ....... 4 4 
SE i dis ben oe 7 
BEE cv doc besbaasas 4 7 1 1 32 
SE, Scvlih» ewusees 1 1 
| Se 2 2 
SER, ouccneccnntd 6 2 8 
ONS Se eee 5 5 
 <vsseeosve0ss 2 2 
ED. sénevevesse 5 1 1 1 7 
Kingfisher ......... & 1 1 1 12 
SE eps aemun ean te 2 1 3 
ERROEE ...ce0-000.% 8 2 
Leflore ....... in oa 2 1 8 
0 SS 28 3 31 
Ramee (8). ..6.560% ll o 15 
ara. Mabe snase 2 3 
BE tas wa ad be we 1 1 
NN teens 6 6 
McClain esaken unin 3 
McCurtain ........ 13 6 1 20 
McIntosh ......... 11 5 2 18 
Muskogee ......... 15 6 3 4 28 
EN > kes vino use ee 5 
Nowata ... i. 4 
Okfuskee ......... 14 5 2 26 
Oklahoma ......... 9 3 1 13 
Okmukgee ........16 8 3 2 29 
EE. cian Sutiniews ite 2 2 
NS eer 5 
EE <5 5 omni need 5 1 6 
Pittsburgh ..... 10 10 
Pontotoc ........ oe 6 
Pottawatomie .... 1 1 1 3 
Pushmataha ....... 1 1 2 
SIRT. aannmeen bas 2 2 
do cetenex & 1 2 6 
SES ven tiomcntar 2 2 
Wagoner ..........19 5 1 1 26 
Tulsa i 1 9 
Washington . 1 1 


The one-room structures are usually 
inadequate and almost worthless. For 
instance, McIntosh County has only 
one excellent consolidated school. Of 
the other schools, seven are poor, five 
fair and seven good. Muskogee has 
nine poor buildings, seven fair, sixteen 
good and three excellent. In most 
cases, the buildings rated as “excellent” 
are Rosenwald buildings. Moreover, 
when a building is rated as good or fair 
it must be remembered that the County 
Superintendents make the rating and 
they are apt to be over-liberal. 

The hope for better rural school 
buildings in Oklahoma, as well as im- 


228 


The Negro Common Schools In 


Oklahoma 


Second Article 
Condensed from the Study 
By Horace M. Bond 


SN 





proved teaching, lies in the consolidated 
district. And the Negro schools can 
be consolidated more easily than the 
white schools because the financing is 
already a county matter. The schools 
at Luther and Arcadia in Oklahoma 
County, and at Berwin, Carter Coun- 
ty, are fine examples of what consoli- 
dation can do. 


N the Independent districts, the gen- 

eral housing conditions are much 
better than in the counties. Tulsa has 
without doubt one of the finest school 
plants for Negro children to be found 
in the country. Oklahoma City stands 
next, but has an old high school build- 
ing, over thirty years in use. In Guth- 
rie, the Negro schools are either anti- 
quated structures out-grown by the 
whites or buildings erected so long ago 
as to be inadequate. Similar condi- 
tions are found in Muskogee, where 
most of the available funds go to cur- 
rent expenses with little or nothing left 
for building. Okmulgee has fair hous- 
ing, while Sapulpa and Sand Springs 
have excellent structures. Boley has 
just erected a building to relieve several 
disgraceful old shacks. The following 
table gives figures as to the enrollment, 
rooms and valuation of the school plant 
in the leading cities: 


ENROLLMENT 
: High Valuation 
City Grades School Rooms Plant 

Oklahoma City. .2,095 243 63 $279,593 
Tulsa ie 1,681 296 53 265,974 
Muskogee .. «1,722 365 47 192,765 
Shawnee .. 167 39 i.) 5 enehs 
Okmulgee ...... 851 129 25 85,730 
Sapulpa a, 57 14 ‘ 
Ardmore 497 89 15 51,300 
Guthrie ... 448 169 26 93,500 
McAlester 321 58 15 26,000 
El Reno......... 195 26 7 55,000 


In many of the smaller towns, like 
Shawnee and El Reno, all the twelve 
grades of the school system are in one 
building for the sake of economy. This, 
however, makes very poor teaching, as 
the teachers are assigned indiscrimin- 
ately to grammar school or high school 
work. In one school, the so-called 
“high school principal” had a class in 
High School Latin followed by a 
fourth grade class in Arithmetic. Such 
conditions are farcical and a waste of 
money. Even the large systems have 
something of this evil. Oklahoma:City 
has a Junior High School and Senior 


High School in a building inadequate 
for high school work. 


Finances 


E have pointed out that in the 

Oklahoma Negro schools we 
have two distinct types of financial 
units. The first of these and the one 
in which most Negro children are en- 
rolled, is the Separate School system 
where the taxing unit is the county, 
This type is used. where the Negro 
population is scattered throughout the 
county without much localization. The 
second type of financial unit occurs 
where consolidation of Negro popula- 
tion makes them the Majority element. 
Here the funds for supporting the 
school are obtained from a tax on the 
property within the district, so that 
even with the help of the state, the tax- 
ation on a poor community renders the 
income insufficient. There is still a 
third unit called the Independent Dis- 
trict. In such districts the whites are 
in the majority but the City Superin- 
tendent administers the Independent 
Negro school chiefly from county 
funds. 

For instance, Oklahoma City, with 
a population of 145,000, is an Inde- 
pendent district. The white schools 
are supported by a tax levied on the 
property within the corporate limits. 
The Negro schools in Oklahoma City 
are supported by a tax levied on the 
taxable property of Oklahoma City and 
out of this tax the country separate 
schools are also supported. Neverthe- 
less, both Negro and white schools in 
Oklahoma City are administered by the 
local Board of Education. 

The system is rather cumbersome 
and illogical and gives the rural schools 
a centralized educational system and 
the city Negro schools the benefit of 
specialized administration, but the 
Negro Independent Districts are apt 
to get a larger proportionate share of 
the county’s levy than the Negro chil- 
dren in the rural districts. The at- 
tendance and per capita expenditure is 
illustrated by the following figures: In 
Negro Independent Districts, 1925-26, 
there were 20,271 students on whom 
were spent $853,484, or a per capita 
of $42.10. In the rural schools, there 
were 22,179 students, on which were 
spent $467,166, or a per capita ex- 
penditure of $21.06. In the Negro 
schools in the Majority Districts, there 
were 5,873 students, on which were 
spent $134,793, or $22.95 per capita. 
The range of expenditures for the Inde- 
(Will you please turn to page 243) 


THE Crisis 









— oo =e Fr, 


% 


| THE N.A.A.C.P. BATTLE FRONT 


€ 


MARY EVANS WILSON 

HE following tribute to the late 

Mrs. Butler Wilson was adopted 
as the sentiments of the executive com- 
mittee of the Boston Branch of the N. 
AAC. P.: 

The 28th of March, 1928, brought 
to us the shadows and the solemnity 
of a great loss and a great sorrow, 
when the spirit of Mary Evans Wilson 
passed from earth into the realm of the 
eternal. Large indeed was the place 
which she filled in the cause repre- 
sented by our National Association for 
the Advancement of Colored People, in 
our Boston Branch and in the hearts 
of all of us who knew her well. She 
gave her life to make Boston and 
America more true to their best tra- 
ditions; to make all Americans more 
worthy of their citizenship; to make 
neighbors more friendly; to bring jus- 
tice and opportunity, brotherhood and 
democracy in place of prejudice and 
proscription, hatred and wrong. She 
has gone from human sight, but her in- 
fluence is abiding and her spirit attends 
us, to challenge and cheer us, to inspire 
us to carry forward the unfinished 
work which she so splendidly advanced. 

The record of Mrs. Wilson’s life is 
the record of notable service as a 
teacher, a social worker and a leader in 
many good causes; it is the record of a 
devoted wife and mother, who was the 
comrade of a noble husband and 
father. Together they lived a radiant 
life in that home which they made a 
center of friendship and cheer and of 
tireless human service. That home was 
like “The House by the Side of the 
Road”, where they lived close to hu- 
man lives and were the friends of men. 

Mr. and Mrs, Wilson worked to- 
gether constantly and most valiantly 
in the Boston Branch from the very 
beginning of this organization. 

Mrs. Wilson’s soul was stirred by 
the wrongs that are suffered by the 
colored people of our country and with 
flaming eloquence on many a platform 
she told the story of. race prejudice, 
the story of disfranchisement and se- 


Batata 


Mary Evans Wilson 


gregation, of injustice suffered and op- 
portunity denied, of haunting terrors 
and terrible lynchings. She told the 
story of a rising race and its remark- 
able achievements. She rallied support, 
recruited members and organized many 
branches for our National Association. 
She made friends for the colored 
neighbor whom the white neighbor 
fails to appreciate because he does not 
know him. No crusader ever pro- 
claimed the truth more earnestly or 
gave himself with more sacrificial de- 
votion. 

A flood of problems and a flood of 
opportunities came with the World 
War. The call to the colors brought 
into the service a host of Negro troops, 
who found themselves not only away 
from home and friends, but often not 
welcomed to social privileges which 
their white comrades enjoyed. Mrs. 
Wilson led the movement in Boston 
which gave hundreds of colored men 
enlisted for war service hospitality and 
wholesome entertainment in hut and 
homes and club rooms, also counsel and 
help in many personal problems. Mrs. 
Wilson and the other noble colored 


a 


women who shared in leadership and 
in personal work with her, organized 
the Women’s Service Club, whose 
rooms and whose admirable service still 
continue at 464 Massachusetts Avenue. 
The handiwork of these women and 
the gifts they secured gave comfort and 
cheer to unnumbered colored men in 
training and in service in America and 
over-seas, 

Mrs. Wilson’s breakdown followed 
overwork and overstrain. Her life had 
been like crowding together the work 
and the thought, the heartbreaking 
sympathies and the nervous strain of a 
score of lifetimes. What a wonderful 
life it was! 

In grateful appreciation of that life 
we present this’ humble tribute to Mrs. 
Wilson’s memory, and with it we ex- 
tend our heartiest sympathy to Mr. 
Wilson and the sons and daughters in 
their sorrow. With them we mourn 
her loss. With them we repoice also 
in the life, the ideals and the service 
that she gave so richly and so abund- 
antly and we would rededicate our- 
selves to the cause for which she gave 
the last full measure of devotion. 


NEWSPAPER ETHICS 


HE news that travels round the 

world over a network of wires, 
through the air and by mail, to be 
printed on sheets of paper and dis- 
tributed as newspapers, is not far re- 
moved from gossip. Some of it, much 
of it-is inaccurate. But it represents 
an effort to find and quickly what is 
happening in the world. The news is 
gathered somewhere by some one per- 
son. And that person’s report would 
differ from the report of some other 
person. So, although news is printed 
in a newspaper as if it were “the” 
news, it is really someone’s report of 
something he saw or heard. 

Now newsgathering and distribut- 
ing is an expensive process. It is so 
expensive that the greatest newspapers 
in the United States, although they 


(Will you please turn to page 246) 


More Members of the Pickens Baby Fraternity, No. 1 


Elbert Liddell 
July, 1928 


Emma White 


Louise Blackwell Barbara Banks 


Harry Milan Cecelia Dow 


229 





THE BROWSING READER 


sts 











ae 


an 





Leslie Pinckney Hill Toussaint L’Ouv- 
erture. The Christopher Publish- 
ing House, Boston. $1.50. 

HIS is the longest serious poem of 
sustained and fine literary quality 

that the American Negro has produced. 
As Mr. Hill says in his Foreword: 
“Haiti has come to be a sort of chal- 
lenge to the democratic sentiments and 
pretentions of our time.”” And he goes 
on to add: “This story is to help fill a 
long-continuing void. The Negro 
youth of the world has been taught 
that the black race has no great tradi- 
tions, no characters of world impor- 
tance, no record of substantial contri- 
bution to civilization. The withering 
moral and social effects of this teach- 
ing can hardly be computed. The cre- 
ative literature now building up with 
such bright promise in Negro America 
must correct and counter-balance this 
falsehood of centuries. A worthy lit- 
erature reared upon authentic records 
of achievement is the present spiritual 
need of the race.” The result justifies 
Mr. Hill’s effort. He has set forth a 
great drama with restraint and beauty. 
It is not a story that will attract the 
reader looking for thrills and excite- 
ment, but those who know something 
of the charm of which English is cap- 
able and who want to read of the de- 
veloping character of a great black 
man, should study this poem. We 
quote one passage, a soliloquy: 

To be a leader! What is that to be? 

To stand between a people and their foes 

And earn suspicion for a recompense ; 

To care for men more than they care 

themselves ; 

To keep a clear discriminating mind 

Between the better counsel and the best; 

To be a judge of men, that none may 

rank 

In estimation higher than his worth, 

Nor fail of scope to prove his quality; 

To search the motive that explains the 

act 

Before it is accounted good or bad; 

To trust a man, and yet not be dismayed 

To find him faithless, going on again 

To trust another; to build failure up 

Into the tedious structure of success; 

To meet the subtle enemy within 

As well as him witnout, and vanquish 


both ; 


To see the cause betrayed by those who - 


pledge 
The strictest loyalty; to overmatch 
The envious with magnanimity ; 
* * & 


To walk through trouble with a heart 
that drips 

The blood of agony, yet with a face 

Of confidence and bright encouragement; 


230 


Best Sellers in THe Crisis Book 
Shop. May, June, 1928. 


Dett: Religious Folksongs of the 
Negro. 
Jessye: My Spirituals. 


Du Bois: Gift of Black Folk. 

White: Fire in the Flint. 

Johnson: American Negro 
Poetry. 

Du Bois: Dark Princess. 

Cullen: Copper Sun. 





To do and do and die to raise a tribe 

So robbed and bound and ignorantly 
weak 

That God himself 

destiny— 

To be a leader! 


conceals their 


God, that is the cost! 





John W. Vandercook. Black Majesty. 
The Life of Christophe, King of 
Haiti. Harper and Brothers. 

“Tas is a gorgeous book,—gorgeous 

in its physical finish and much 

more so in its splendid message. It 
is the absorbing story of one of the 
great men which that mighty little 
island of black folk gave to the world. 
The story is done with a deft and yet 
a free hand. Vandercook has painted 
a man, a strong unbridled black giant; 
a slave, a warrior and a King. He 
has written with truth and yet with 
sympathy. Note his explanations of 
that “Count of Limonade” and “Duke 
of Marmelade”, which always caused 
gales of laughter among feckless fools. 
The whole story is better than a novel: 
the splendid court of the King; the 
marvelous citadel, the economic mir- 
acles, and the terrible death. All 
readers of THE Crisis should buy and 
read “Black Majesty”: 

“The Admiral, a tall, distinguished 
Englishman, wore his full-dress uni- 
form, but he found himself eclipsed by 
the splendor of Henry and his cour- 
tiers. Painfully he realized that the 
afternoon was hot and his broadcloth 
more appropriate to the bleak cham- 
bers of Windsor than to the verdant 
terraces of Sans Souci. Had he not 
been a gentleman, Sir Home would 
have been very uncomfortable indeed. 

“Christophe stepped forward, shook 
hands, and greeted him with courtly 
propriety. Sir Home had turned the 
matter over and over in his mind with- 
out reaching a decision, but the phrase 
he had debated came naturally to his 
lips. ‘I am honored, Your Majesty,’ 
he said, and bowed.” 








Arthur Garfield Hayes. Let Freedom 

Ring. Boni and Liveright. $2.59, 
W HENEVER Negroes get ty 

thinking that they are the onl 
people in America who are having diff. 
culties, they should read Mr. Hayes’ 
account of the extraordinary way in 
which freedom, even in its ordinary 
limited sense, has been withdrawn 
from white Americans since the World 
War. The right of education has 
been curtailed, freedom of speech and 
assemblage has been made a, mockery 
in many localities, freedom of the press 
has been distorted into propaganda, 
freedom of the stage is scarcely emerg- 
ing from chains of silly propriety, and 
freedom of opinion is evidenced by the 
Sacco-Vanzetti case. With all these 
freedoms gone from white folk, the 
Negro can afford to smile even over 
so outrageous a case as that of Dr. 
Sweet. Mr. Hayes, who was one of 
his counsel, devotes 38 pages to that 
cause celebré. The book is written with 
humor and sarcasm and hits straight 
from the shoulder: 

“There will be those who will inter- 
pret my statements to mean that I re- 
gard absolute freedom as feasible. Far 
from it. I know that liberty to swing 
my arm stops where the other fellow’s 
nose begins. Liberty is a relative mat- 
ter. I believe in those liberties con- 
tained in the Bills of Rights. I am 
willing to concede that these are sub- 
ject to interpretation, but I object to 
nullification.” 





Louis I. Dublin. Health and Wealth. 
Harper and Brothers. 
R. DUBLIN is Statistician of the 
Metropolitan Life Insurance 
Company. His book is “a survey of 
the economics of world health’. Chap- 
ter 12 is on “Life, Death, and the 
Negro”. Dr. Dublin’s whole attitude 
is in satisfying contrast to the distor- 
tion and malevolence of F. L. Hoft- 
mann, the Negro-hating Statistician 
of the Prudential Life Insurance Com- 


pany. Dr. Dublin says of the black 
American: 
“The pessimism which prevailed 


thirty and more years ago with regard 
to his future is now no longer even 
remotely justified. The doleful prophe- 
cies of those who saw the race problem 
solved through his extinction have 
been absolutely discredited by recent 
events. A race which lives in many 
areas under what are still rather primi- 


Tue Crisis 











ber | 
Wor 
Ame 
deep 
later 





tive conditions of sanitation is today 
enjoying an expectation of life of about 
forty-six years, which is equal to that 
of white Americans only thirty years 
ago. In comparison with a death rate 
of 35 to 40 per 1,000 in Reconstruc- 
tion days the Negro mortality is now 
only about 17 per 1,000—a death rate 
about the same as the rate for a num- 
ber of European countries before the 
World War. . . . Probably no single 
American group is experiencing so 
deep and so intelligent a revival of 
latent power as is the Negro today. 
_.. His achievements in America will 
be ultimately recognized not only as 
the greatest experiment in racial 
adjustments ever undertaken by man, 
but as the most encouraging and grat- 
ifying episode in our national life.” 





Frank H. Hankins. The Racial Basis 
of Civilization. Knopf. 

HIS book is a most amazing con- 

tradiction. Starting out with a 
devastating and long attack upon the 
doctrine of Nordic superiority, with 
trenchent criticism of the whole doc- 
trine of race, Professor Hankins suc- 
ceeds in the course of 384 pages, in 
turning himself completely around and 
accepting, if we understand his Eng- 
lish, nearly every petty dogma of race 
prejudice, even to the matter of Bean’s 
ridiculous brain measurements and the 
whole gamut of “intelligence” tests. 
The book is exceedingly difficult to 
understand because of endless and aca- 
demic reference to authorities and be- 
cause no sooner has Mr. Hankins made 
one statement than he proceeds so to 
contradict and modify it by others that 
his final conclusion is always left a bit 
in the air. It looks as though the 
author had started out with two con- 
tradictory prepossessions: one, a me- 
grim against Nordics and the other, a 
superiority complex against Negroes. 
It is a little difficult to reconcile two 
such points of view, but the author 
has apparently done it to his own satis- 
faction. 


Africa is the journal of the “Inter- 
national Institute of African Lan- 
guages and Cultures” recently estab- 
lished in London. Volume One, 
Number One, issued by the Oxford 
University Press in January has just 
reached us. We are naturally as dis- 
appointed in the Journal as in the In- 
stitute. The Journal has a few excel- 
lent articles: “African Negro Music” 
by E. M. von Hornbostel and an ar- 
ticle on the Mandingan Theatre in the 
French Sudan. There are notes on 
books and an exposition of the plan of 
the Institute. 

Chiefly, however, the thing to be 
criticized is that (with one possible 
exception) not a single man of Negro 
descent has anything to do apparently 


July, 1928 


with the Institute or with the Journal. 
The whole movement is headed by 
Lord Lugard, who himself has prob- 
ably murdered more Africans than any 
living Englishman, which is saying a 
great deal. 

Who is F. D. Lugard? He is the 
man who stole Uganda for the British 
Empire and we cite but one incident in 
his blood-stained career as quoted in 
Leonard Woolf’s “Empire and Com- 
merce in Africa”. 

“At the head of a considerable military 
force, Captain Lugard, of the British 
East Africa Company, .(Ibea), penetrat- 
ed as far as Mengo, the residence of King 
Mwanga, and forced upon him a treaty 
of protectorate: then turning against 
the Catholics, he attacked them on some 
futile pretext, and drove them into a big 
island on Lake Victoria. There around 
the King and the French missionaries 
there had gathered for refuge a con- 
siderable multitude of men, women, and 
children. Against this harmless and de- 
fenceless population Captain Lugard 
turned his guns and Maxims. He ex- 
terminated a large number and then, 
continuing his work of destruction, he 
gave full rein to his troops and adher- 
ents, who burnt all the villages and sta- 
tions of the White Fathers, their 
churches, and their crops.” 

It is this man, raised to an English 
peerage and honored by the League of 
Nations, who heads this movement to 
uplift Africa! The other persons rep- 
resented in the governing council are 
Frenchman, Belgians, Germans and 
Englishmen. Everybody and any- 
body except men of black blood or na- 
tive Africans. Possibly Moussa 
Travélé, who collaborates in one of the 
contributed articles, is of Negro blood. 
If so, he is the only one represented 
there. It is the old idea of white folk 
taking charge of “the civilization of 
Africa’, commenting on the black man 
as though he were a strange animal, 
writing his text books for him lest he 
get hold of too strong and heady Euro- 
pean culture and thus raising him high 
enough to support Europeans in idle 
luxury with leisure for philanthropy 
and science. Such a movement was 
perhaps understandable in the 19th 
Century; in the 20th it is a miserable 
anachronism and so good a scientist 
as Diedrich Westerman ought to be 
ashamed of it. 





Boni and Liveright are bringing out 
a new edition of Jessie Fauset’s 
“There Is Confusion” which has been 
out of print for sometime. Orders 
will be received at THe Crisis Book 
Shop. 

Dantes Bellegarde, the Haitian 
Statesman, sends us the first volume 
of a series, Pour Une Haiti Heureuse. 
This volume is on education. It is a 
history of education in Haiti and a plea 
for future development. C. C. Boone 


sends us Congo As I Saw It. Mr. 
Boone represented the Lott Carey Mis- 
sionary Convention in the Congo from 
1901-06. W. L. Turner has written 
an outline of the history of Liberia, 
Under the Skin in Africa. Texts and 
Talks by the late Reverened John G. 
Yeister have been compiled and_ edited 
by his daughter. 

The Vanguard Press sends us 
Don’t Tread on Me by Clement 
Wood, McAlister Coleman and Arthur 
Garfield Hayes. It is a plea for an 
aggressive stand on the part of the 
labor movement. There are four 
books on Soviet Russia, treating the 
status of women, the new schools, 
health, work and trade unions. They 
make available much interesting mat- 
ter concerning new Russia. The 
Remedy for Over-Production and Un- 
employment by Hugo Bilgrim, is an 
important contribution to the economic 
study of interest, but exceedingly diff- 
cult to read. W. E. B. D. 


IN THE MAGAZINES 

ORD OLIVIER in the Nation 

for May 30, tells how the Euro- 
pean Powers juggle the word “trus- 
teeship” to suit themselves in admin- 
istering the “Government of Natives 
in Africa”. Powers among the vic- 
torious allies, under the Covenant of 
the League of Nations, were appointed 
as mandatories to the “backward peo- 
ples” in the former German colonies. 
Instruments were drawn up, vaguely 
defining the duties of the Trustee 
Power. The idea, Lord Olivier says, 
was a good one, and if it had been 
sincerely applied could have been 
wholesome; but since the duties of the 
trustees were not expressly defined, 
the individual powers dissipated them 
as they willed—their own selfish greed 
uppermost in their minds. 

The April mid-month Survey car- 
ries an article by Charles $. Johnson 
on “Negro Workers and the Unions”. 
The American Fund for Public Ser- 
vice, through a grant to the National 
Urban League, is sponsoring a study 
of the Negro in trades unions. The 
eleven inter-national unions which ex- 
clude Negroes by constitutional pro- 
vision have a total membership of 436,- 
200, and control a field in which at 
least 43,858 Negroes are employed. 
Negro membership in other unions 
varies directly with locality and type 
of work. It is estimated that there 
are only 65,492 Negroes enrolled as 
members of the various unions; but 
this is understandable when the fact 
is taken into consideration that the 
skilled trades are the most thoroughly 
organized and three fourths of the 
Negro workers are unskilled. It is en- 
couraging and important, says Mr. 
(Will you please turn to page 247) 


231 




































































THE POET’S CORNER 


Gospel for Those Who Must 
By ALLISON DAVIS 


The Leader 


NE lone bird, 

Small and brown, 
Singing in the morning 
One clear note, 


Singing to the high church-steeple 
With its needle spire 

Pointing to the infinite heaven, 
Merging with the far blue sky, 


In the fresh vigor of the morning 
His one clear call, 

Harsh, unvarying, but 

Beautiful. 


Oh, all sweeter, fuller singers, 
All loud and busy noises of the mid-day 
Drown his voice ; 


But in the quiet cool of dusk, 

By the spire pointing to the far blue 
vault, 

I hear him singing still, 


Lonely 

With his one unfaltering call, 
Beautiful 

With his one clear note 
Following the spire. 


Fighters 


HESE of the coal-black faces 

Confide low-voiced,— 
Fisherman, washerwoman, 
Quietly shutting themselves off 
From the pool-room loafers. 


Unbroken 

By the salt spume of the sea, 

Tight-lipped against the whispering fears 
of age, 


He holds her laughing, 


In his keen eyes the gleam of one who 
knows 

He must endure all shifting winds, and 
hate 

Of deep-embittered sons of slaving race, 

Must outreach 

The hunger of insatiate women, 

And broken nets at sea. 


Her brave face 

Softens with a smile, 

And light of youth’s long hopes and 
passion, 

Sunk away;— 


But she has seasoned in her proper time 

And grown to mellow laughter, 

Strong 

Like some far runner turning with new 
vigor 

Home. 


232 


Now she is firm against 

The tearings of untimely births, 
And sweating steam of clothes; 
Firm now, at last, against 

The pleading smiles 

Of brutal melancholy, 
Rich-voiced men. 


To All Negroes Everywhere 


KNOW lone dwellers on a barren 
farm, 
Who daily drink from acrid waters, rank 
With yellow scum and sickening taste,— 
Minerals from the dark, deep-hidden 
earth. 


This bitterness they change for health 
and power, 

And stomachs sweetened to their vulgar 
food, 

And now no longer wish 

A long draught from the cold, sweet 
well. 


Quest 
By LEWIS ALEXANDER 


[ ike roses ramble on the ground 
And up the trellised porch, 

I have sought you all around 
Bearing brave the torch. 


Now the lengthy search has burned 
Out the flaming light. 

I with broken heart return 
Searching thru the night. 


I Am Africa 
By 
WALTER EVERETTE HAWKINS 


AM Africa: 
Black as the wealth of my coal 
mines, 
Black as the murk of my midnight; 
I built Timbuctoo and Karnak,— 
The temples of Isis and Osiris, 
The Alphabet I gave and As- 


tronomy. 


AM Arfrica: 

I am the Sphinx and the Pyramids, 

The rub and riddle of the universe, 

Defying time and the elements. 

Upon the bosom of my prairies 

I shelter the caravan of nations,— 

I lull them to sleep in my mid- 
night,— 

I bury them in my Saharas. 

From the pinnacle of my pyramids 

I laughed at the legions of Caesar. 

Out of the night of my midnight 

Arose the hut of the Zulu, 

The wigwam and kraal of the 
Bushmen, 

The dynasties of Rameses and the 
Pharaohs, 
The palaces and temples of the 
Ptolemies. 


My daughters were queens in old 
Sheba, 

My sons were the kings of old 
Egypt; 

On the banks of the Nile I have 
reared them, 

In immortal art I embalmed them, 


AM Africa: 


Black as the night of my coal mines, 

Black as the deep of my midnight, 

Prometheus on the rock of advers. 
ity, 

The nations I feed on my vitals, 

I give food to the tables of mon- 
archs, . 

My coal warms the palaces of 
princes, 

My diamonds deck the bosoms of 
queens,— 

The queens in the palaces of Lon- 
don, 

The salons of Brussels and of Paris, 

The salons of Berlin and New 
York. 


AM Africa: 


On the fertile banks of the Congo 

My sorrow in song I have lifted; 

In the cane brakes and cornfields of 
Texas 

My sorrow songs still I am singing, 

I sleep ’neath the stars in the jungle, 

I am brother to the beasts and the 
leopard, 

The lion’s strength moves in my 
sinews, 

In my bones is the iron of my 
Africa. 

I worship the life-giving sunlight, 

Oblations I give to the moon, 

My gods are of stone and of iron— 

No greater than these have I found. 

I build temples which I may not 
enter, 

I garner the harvest but eat not; 

I gather the cotton in the South- 
land,— 

Give grist to the mills in the North- 
land,— 

Give gristle and grist to America. 


AM Africa: 


I laid down my life at Fort Pillow, 

My blood’s on the Common of Bos- 

ton; 

I died on the flag at Fort Wagner, 

My bones lie bleaching in Flanders. 

They lynch me and burn. me in 
Georgia, 

My body is fuel in Texas, 

They jim-crow me even in Wash 
ington, 

They mock me even from the White 
House. 

Black as the wealth of my coal 
mines, ; 
Black as high noon of my mid 
night,— 

I am the nimbus of nations, 
I am Africa. 


Tue Crisis 








1 old 
+ old 
have 


them, 


nines, 
ight. 
vers- 
mon- 
es of 
ns of 
Lon- 


Paris, 
New 


‘ongo 
ted; 
Ids of 


inging. 
jungle, 
nd the 
in my 
of my 
ight, 

ron— 
found. 


1y not 


ot; 


South- 
North- 
rica. 

Pillow, 
yf Bos- 
J agner, 
anders. 
me in 
Wash- 
White 
y coal 


y mid 


rica. 


Crisis 





Se 


ALONG THE COLOR LINE 


MUSIC AND ART 


@ The Greater Bethel Choristers, ac- 
companied by the Little Symphony 
Orchestra which is conducted by 
James A. Munday, gave recently in 
Chicago a performance of the “Mes- 
siah”. The soloists were Mrs. Odell 
Stone, the Reverend George I. Hold, 
Mrs. Inez Edmondson, and Lewis W. 
White. 
@ Miss Mabel Jones and her pupils 
were presented early in June in a 
classic dance recital, at the Armstrong 
Auditorium, Washington, D. C. 

@ “Over the Top in No Man’s 
Land”, a war spectacle, has been pre- 
sented in Nashville. The night scenes 
of the Marne, the breast works and 
entanglements, the handling of ma- 
chine guns and artillery, were re- 
produced with fireworks. 

@ Mrs. Nadyne Roberts Waters 
sang recently at Symphony Hall, Bos- 
ton. Mrs. Waters has studied at the 
new England Conservatory and with 
Vincent Hubbard, teacher of Roland 
Hayes. 

q An “Anthology of Revolutionary 


July, 1928 





L. I. Dublin, page 230 


Poetry”, compiled and edited by Mar- 
cus Graham, is scheduled for early 
publication. Countée Cullen is a 
member of the publication committee. 


EDUCATION 


@ Stanley A. Harris; director of in- 
terracial activities of the Boy Scouts 
of America, is giving a course in Scout 


The Dallas, Texas, Y. M. C. A. Campaign Committee, page 236 








leadership at the teachers’ summer 
school at Hampton Institute this year. 
@ The New Junior High School for 
Colored Children at Nashville, de- 
signed by McKissack & McKissack, 
will be ready for occupancy in Sep- 
tember. 

@ The Atlanta School of Social 
Work, Atlanta, Ga., conferred 
diplomas on fourteen graduates at its 
commencement exercises held late in 
May. The commencement address 
was delivered by Mr. Edward M. 
Kahn, director of the Jewish Educa- 
tional Alliance of Atlanta. 

@ The American University of 
Beirut, located in Syria, has seven 
students from Abyssinia, who are be- 
ing trained as teachers in government 
schools; and five government students 
from the Sudan. 

@ Six Negro Students were grad- 
uated from the American Baptist 
Theological Seminary, Nashville, 
Tenn., at its recent commencement. 

@ In April an emergency committee 
of representative students from all 
over the United States assembled in 


233 


rcaenian tr hamearn ceaiecatin meninges 














Washington, D. C., for the purpose 
of protesting the foreign policy of 
America in its relation with Nicaragua. 
Richard H. Hill, a Negro student of 
Lincoln University, was present. 
During Monday morning of the 16th 
many members of congress were inter- 
viewed on the subject of Nicaragua 
and at noon arrangements were made 
for the committee to have lunch at the 
Cafeteria of the Methodist Building, 
a very imposing edifice just opposite 
the Capital and the headquarters of 
the Department of Temperance, Pro- 
hibition and Public Morals of the 
Methodist Episcopal Church. The 
students proceeded to the Methodist 
Building, with the exception of Hill 
and several others who were delayed 
through extended interviews. When 
the delayed group left the senate corri- 
dor to join their associates, the others 
were met returning. Upon inquiry it 
was revealed that lunch was being pre- 
pared at the Congressional Cafe in- 
stead, insomuch as those in charge of 
the Methodist Building Cafeteria 
pointedly refused to serve a Negro. 
Temperance, Prohibition and Public 
Morals! 

@ Formal exercises in connection with 
the unveiling of the bronze bust of 
John E. Milholland were held in the 
Chapel of Howard University, Wash- 
ington, D. C., May 20. 

@ John D. Rockefeller, Jr., delivered 
the commencement address at the re- 
cent Fisk graduation exercises. 


@ The special students of the Cloth- 


ing Division of the Department of 


James A. Butler, page 235 


Home Economics of Langston Uni- 
versity, Obkla., presented a fashion 
show ‘recently, under. the direction of 
Mrs. E. M. Wills. The costumes 
used in the show were designed and 
made by the students. 

@ Eijghty-nine students of the Uni- 
versity of Michigan have been elected 
to the Phi Beta Kappa for 1928: 12 
Juniors, 69 Seniors, and 8 members of 
former classes., Among the Juniors 
was a colored man, William J. Sink- 
ford, and among the Seniors, a colored 
girl, Miss Carol G. Carson, and a 
colored man, Loren B. Miller. 

@ Hampton Institute has announced 
that graduate courses leading to the 


M. A. degree, will be given in the | 


Summer School session. 

@ Summer courses leading to the B 
A. degree will be given at Straight 
College, New Orleans, La., this yeap 
@ In the recent report of the John 
F, Slater Fund, it is interest 
note the increase from 1922 .o 1927 jm 
9 Negro colleges that teport a student 
body of 100 or more: 


1927 


Virginia Union ... 
Wiley 

Bishop 

New Orleans ..... 
Morehouse 

Shaw 

Atlanta 


2930 

@ According to a recent bulletin of 
the Near East College Association, the 
first volume of a series of books for 
young people translated into Turkish, 
is Booker T. Washington’s “Up From 
Slavery”. 

@ Alcorn College, the Negro State 
College of Mississippi, is to receive 
$425,000 this year. Three hundred 
and twenty-five thousand dollars of 
this sum has been appropriated by the 
Mississippi legislature and the Gen- 
eral Education Board has given $100, 
000. 

PERSONAL 

@ Leon L. Whitaker of Los Angeles, 
Calif., received the J. D. degree from 
University of California at the recent 


The Howard University Engineering Society: Professors and Students of Architecture and Engineering 


Tue Crisis 


Saa@rsasos saksmamse Bre. 


i 
rE 











geles, 
from 
recent 


commencement. Mr. Whitaker re- 
ceived the B. A. degree from the Uni- 
versity in 1926; the faculty and stu- 
dent editors of the California Law 
Review unanimously elected him to the 
Editorial Staff of the Review in May, 
1927; and he was appointed to the 
Board of Governors of the Boalt Hall 
Law Association in September, 1927. 
@ Ben L. Taylor, professor in the 
Department of Physics of Shaw Uni- 
versity, has been awarded a prize of 
$100 in a contest conducted under the 
auspices of the Forum magazine for 
the best solution of a series of special 
problems in logic. His paper will be 
published in the September issue of 
the Forum. 
@ The first colored probation officer 
in the history of Atlanta has recently 
been appointed to work under Judge 
Garland Watkins of the Juvenile 
Court of that city. Mrs. Mamie R. 
Hamilton, the recipient of the appoint- 
ment, is a member of this year’s grad- 
wating class of the Atlanta School of 
Social Work and a graduate of Atlanta 
University. 
@ Among the three persons noted for 
their contributions to civic progress in 
Springfield, Mass., was Dr. William 
N. DeBerry, colored pastor of St. 
John’s Congregational Church of that 
city for 29 years. Dr. DeBerry was 
honored by the award of the Pynchon 
medal for his service to the Negro 
population of Springfield. 
@ L. Emmett Drewry, for two and 
one-half years principal of the high 
school at Talladega College, died re- 
cently in the Veterans’ Hospital, Tusk- 
egee, Ala., at the age of 35 years. Mr. 
I received his early education 
in the grade schools and high schools 
of Baltimore, Md., and took his col- 
work at Oberlin. 
@ Countée Cullen and James Weldon 
J mson have lectured during the 
spring term at Talledega College. 


July, 1928 


Philander Smith College Girls’ Basket Ball Team. Ark. State Champions 1924-28 


@ Miss Madeline B. Goode, colored 
high school senior of Boston, Mass., 
recently received a scholarship from 
the Boston chapter of the Delta Sigma 
Theta Sorority, which will enable her 
to enter Boston University in Septem- 
ber. 

@ “Bursting Bonds” by William 
Pickens, has recently been translated 
into Russian. 

@ William Gilbert, prominent Negro 
citizen of Nashville, Tenn., died re- 
cently at the age of 40 years. Mr. 
Gilbert, who graduated in 1912 from 
Howard University with the B. A. 
degree, taught at State University, 
Louisville, Ky.; at Southern University 


and A. & M. College, Baton Rouge, 


La.; and at Western College, Macon, 
Mo. Shortly after the death of Mr. 
Gilbert, his mother, Mrs. Agnes M. 
Gilbert, a worker in church and club 
circles, died from the shock caused by 
her son’s passing. 


John Haynes Holmes on the John Brown Rock, Lake Placid, N. Y. Speaking at the 


@ Professor George Carver, well- 
known Negro agricultural chemist of 
Tuskegee Institute, Fellow of the 
Royal Society of London, and Spingarn 
Medallist for 1923, recently completed 
a tour among the colleges of Virginia 
and Tennessee under the auspices of 
the Interracial Commission and the 


Student Department of the Y. M. C. 
A. 


@ Forrester B. Washington, Director 
of the Atlanta School of Social Work, 
was appointed by Governor Hardaman 
as one of the representatives of the 
State of Georgia to the National Con- 
ference of Social Work which met at 
Memphis, Tenn., May 2-9. 


@ Edward Gardner, colored, of 
Seattle, Wash., finished eighth in the 
recent Bunion Marathon and won 
$1000. Gardner traveled from Los 
Angeles to New York in 658 hours 
and 56 minutes, about 100 hours 
slower than the winner. 


@ Dr. Ernest R. Alexander, of New 
York City, has just completed a 
course of lectures on diseases of the 
skin before the nurses of the training 


school of Harlem Hospital, New 
York City. 


@ Dr. James Alpheus Butler, Assist- 
ant City Physician of Tampa, Florida, 
and popular leader is dead. The City 
Hall flag was flown at half mast on 
the day of his fungral. Dr. Butler 
was a graduate of Howard and spent 
a large part of his life in Tampa. He 
leaves a widow and three children. 


@ Sam R. Greenlee is dead at Marion, 
North Carolina. He was a bricklayer 
and plasterer and had five children, 
two of whom served in the World 
War. He was Chairman of the local 
colored school board, and highly re- 
garded. 


Sixth Annual Pilgrimage of the John Brown Memorial Association 


235 


cemeacliaamerspetataiarittione 


eo ee int wats 
PE Tid TRL ATER RE TINCT R IN St = 











a 






nsnaignetnanamenpieimienncisimamacene enn fi 







coapnemaesrneomonnhit 







































 seuenicseomeatannaaae 








Champion Crop and Live Stock Judging Pupils Among Southern Colleges. Bottom 













































Row: A. & M. College, Orangeburg, S. C., Champions. Middle Row: A, & T. Col- 
lege, Greensboro, N. C., Second Place. Top Row: V. N. 1. 1., Petersburg, Va., Third 
Place 


SOCIAL PROGRESS 


@ For many years William Pickens, 
Field Secretary of the N. A. A. C. P., 
has been conducting Baby Contests in 
various parts of the United States. By 
this method, the friends of various 
children solicit donations for the N. A. 
A. C. P. on behalf of their favorites. 
In the recent contest at Los Angeles, 
the results were so extraordinary that 
The Pickens’ Baby Fraternity was 
founded and the first chapter estab- 
lished. In this Fraternity, the officers 
are chosen according to the amounts of 
money which each raise and all Fra- 
ternity members must have raised at 
least $50. In this case, the President 
raised $1030; the Vice-President, 
$681; the Secretary, $587; the Treas- 
urer, $503; the Sergeant-at-Arms, 
$294; and the two Honor Members, 
$245 and $215. Ome of these Honor 
Members, Barry Hudson, had been 
leader in two previous contests. The 
other Fraternity members raised -at 
least $50 each. The total amount 
raised in Los Angeles was $5,645. In 
Pasadena $2,389 was raised. In all, 
during the last ten years, Mr. Pickens 
has raised $63,500 for the N. A. A. C. 
P. by these contests. . 

@ Colored men in Dallas, Texas, par- 
ticipated in the recent Y. M. C. A. 
building campaign from which the col- 
lored people are to have a building to 
cost approximately $200,000. The 
amount set as a goal for colored citi- 
zens to raise was $50,000.00. Subscrip- 
tions were made to the amount of 
$77,000.00, more than $16,000.00 of 
which was paid in cash during the 
campaign. There were eight men who 
subscribed $1,000 or more; one sub- 
scribing an@ paying in cash, $7,500.00; 


and one subscribing $5,000. The $7,- 


500.00 man was Dr. J. W. Anderson, 
236 


a practicing physician; and the $5,000 
subscriber was W. S. Willis, Grand 
Chancellor of the Knights of Pythias 
of the state and a resident of Dallas. 
The campaign chairman was J. J. 
Rhoads, principal of the Booker T. 
Washington High School of the city. 
The campaign was directed by R. B. 
DeFrantz of the National Council 
with headquarters in New York City. 


David Meyers, Champion Javelin Thrower, Middle Atlantic States College Meet 
Tue Crisis 


This was the 14th building campaign 
conducted by Mr. DeFrantz during 
the nearly five years in which be has 
been the campaign director and jp 
which time colored people have syp. 
scribed to building campaigns a total of 
$481,000. Julius Rosenwald make 
his usual gift of $25,000 to this build. 
ing. 


LIBERIA 


@ Bishop Robert E. Campbell oj 
Liberia is returning to the United 
States for a furlough. He thinks that 
the prospects are good for Liberia and 
reports that the. Episcopalians haye 
sixty-two schools. 

@ President King of Liberia was ip. 
augurated for the third term of office 
January 2, at Monrovia. Two full 
days were proclaimed by the Govern- 
ment as holidays, when all the offices, 
stores and schools were closed and 
Monrovia was decorated, with illum. 
inations at night. The United States 
Minister, the British Chargé D’Af 
faires, and the French, Belgian and 
Italian Consuls-General were present. 
There were a large number of native 
chiefs and a military display. The 
President and Mrs. King went to the 
hall by motor car. In his speech the 
President emphasized education, sani- 
tation, and new roads. 






















@BQsG SS FS s-ssaer2-ea 


a 
rz 


S. R. Greenlee,. page 235 


EAST AFRICA 


q M. M. Hararwala has been made 
a member of the Order of the British 
Empire at Addis Ababa, Abyssinia. He 
is a Mohammedan, representing the 
Indian and Arab communities, and is 
being especially favored by English 
merchants. 

@ The Princess Yashimabet, youngest 
daughter of Ras Taffari, Regent of 
Abyssinia, is being educated in Chester, 
England, under private tutors. She is 
delicate in health and is receiving espe- 
cially medical attention. 

@ There are five million Africans in 
Tanganyika, formerly German East 
Africa. Most of the German methods 
of governing are still in vogue. There 
are no pass laws and the courts follow 
native law. The natives form the 
police force. The revenue is about 
three million dollars a year, of which 
over five hundred thousand dollars is 
turned back to the native treasuries un- 
der the chiefs. Four hundred thous- 
and dollars was spent on education in 
1926-27. There is no bar to natives 
being members of the legislative coun- 
cil, but none are sufficiently educated. 
@ Continued effort is being made to 
renew the contract for native labor out 
of Portuguese Africa for the South 
African mines. It is shown that from 
two-thirds to three-fourths of the wages 
of the natives are withheld, that na- 
tives are held to forced labor for the 
time of their contract which is a year 
or more; they are “advanced” supplies 
on the usual exorbitant terms. 


WEST AFRICA 
q At the Canadian National Exposi- 
tion, which will be held at Toronto 
August 24 to September 8, the British 
West African colonies will hold a 
joint exhibit of agricultural products, 
timber, mineral products, and native 
industries. Films, maps and_photo- 
graphs of West African life will be ex- 
hibited ; and also a collection of Cap- 
tain Spencer Pryse’s paintings of the 
Coast and Nigeria. 
@ Angola, the largest of Portuguese 


July, 1928 


colonies, comprises 1,256,999 square 
kilometers, being fourteen times the 
size of Portugal. It has, as a Lisbon 
writer says: Five million “good hard- 
working natives” who are under the 
absolute control of the Portugal Civil 
Administration. This looks danger- 
ously near like state slavery. 

@ A new industrial school has been 
opened at Bornu in Nigeria occupying 
12% acres. It has accommodations for 
over 100 boys. 

@ W. R. Harding, formerly the col- 
ored head of the Lagos Constabulary, 
has willed $15,000 to Fourah Bay 
College. 

@ In Sierra Leone a recent report 
shows that 20 boys and 90 girls had 
been given scholarships in 1926. There 
were 6 Secondary schools for boys and 
6 for girls. The net cost of the Gov- 
ernment Secondary schools was about 
$60,000. Comparatively little school 
building had been done. 

@ According to a Census taken De- 
cember 31, 1926, there were 7,955,450 
inhabitants in the Belgian Congo. 
With omissions, this may mean as 
many as 10 million today. To these 
should be added 2% millions in 
Urandi and 2 million in Ruanda, mak- 
ing between fourteen and fifteen mil- 
lion natives. There are 18,525 whites, 
of whom 11,898 are Belgians. 

@ The life of King Peters of Sierra 
Leone, by Captain F. W. Butt- 
Thompson, has been published in Lon- 
don. King Peters was instrumental in 
breaking up the slave trade. He was 
captured and taken to America, and 
during the Revolutionary War fought 
for the British as Sergeant Major. He 
finally returned to Africa in 1792 and 
died free and honored. 


SOUTH AFRICA 
@ Between 1887 and 1925 the min- 


ing area of the Transvaal produced 
over four million dollars worth of 
products. For this Portuguese Moz- 
ambique furnished the bulk of the la- 
bor. In June, 1927, there were 111,- 
116 natives from Mozambique in the 
Transvaal mines. 

@ The A. P. O. Conference pro- 
tested bitterly against the government 
white labor policy. They asked for a 
civilized wage for all colored people, 
government employees and also oppor- 
tunity for high grade positions. 

@ The Bishop of Pretoria is remind- 
ing South Africa that its society there 
has been built on the basis of a mini- 
mum wage for Negroes. The result 
has been bad for the whites and there 
is a great amount of poverty among 
the blacks. 

@ A special correspondent to a Berlin 
Lokal Anzeiger reports that former 
German Southwest Africa, which was 
economically self-supporting before the 
War, has now a deficit of $750,000, 


and that this has been made for the 
purpose of supplying jobs for English- 
men. A number of the public utility 
works which the Germans had planned 
have not been carried out. Large 
grants of land are being given to Eng- 
lishmen who are not farmers and they 
are also being advanced credit. 

@ General Smuts has been making a 
strong bid for the colored vote of Cape 
Town. Recently he addressed a Con- 
ference of the African Peoples Organi- 
zation and advocated equal rights for 
all civilized men. “The people must 
feel satisfied that whether they are 
high or low, black or white, rich or 
poor, there is equal justice for every 
man... . You have been a most law- 
abiding people. ... When the great 
war took place you once more did your 
duty and large numbers of your boys 
went with me. They fought just as 
bravely and did their duty just as 
magnificently as the whites.” 

@ The Annual Congress of the I. C. 
U. was held at Bloenfontein. The 
delegates were welcomed by a former 
Mayor who stressed the gifts of white 
people to the Negroes. In replying, J. 
G. Gumede said “that the black man 
had played his part well, but that the 
white man had failed deplorably.” 
Chief Tanala of the Transkei said that 
his people would not resort to force 
but would appeal to the League of 
Nations. “No white men can fight 
against destiny and the pre-destination 


of the All-Mighty.” 


Nana Sir Ofori Atta, Third British Knight 
of African Descent 


237 


a SP 
SPR EE TONITE OE IED IS FN 


2 LEO EE OI AORN TE: 1 ROS TE IE I 






































































































































































































































































































































































































































THE FAR HORIZON 


Pe 





THE “RETARDED” CHILD. 
ETARDATION in colored school 


children has for years been con- 
sidered a mark of their “inferiority” 
and has been a resting place for all 
persons wishing to measure “intelli- 
gence”. Now comes Marjorie A. 
Kemp of the Chicago schools with an 
exposition and remedy for retardation 
which is of interest to us. First, be- 
cause the retarded children are practi- 
cally all Nordic whites; and secondly, 
because (quite incidentally) Miss 
Kemp happens to be a teacher of Negro 
descent who has made one of the most 
valuable suggestions to public element- 
ary education in Chicago that has been 
offered in many years. In a series of 
articles published in the Chicago Daily 
News Miss Kemp states these facts: 

A 15-year-old boy may ‘grade in the 
first year, but regardless of the fact that 
he doesn’t know square root his natural 
development of mental faculties and his 
physical growth disqualify him from 
matching colored pegs or playing “Rock- 
a-by-Baby” with children of the first 
grade and liking it. 

Of the 970 pupils of elementary grade 
in the Garfield school, 1426 Newberry 
avenue, 674 are graded as retarded from 
one to six years; fifty-four retarded six 
and a half years, four accelerated—that 
is, younger than age of grade; forty- 
eight subnormal and 190 normal age of 
grade. The Garfield school is in a 
neighborhood where 84 per cent of the 
children are delinquent, according to the 
survey and investigation made under the 
direction of the department of sociology 
of the University of Chicago. .. . 

Retardation does not mean mental 
weakness on the part of the student who 
has fallen behind the normal age of his 
grade. Its causes are multiple and range 
from economic, as perhaps the greatest 
to parental indifference, illness in early 
years, birth where there were no school 
advantages and other environment and 
social causes. 

She cites a series of facts concerning 
parents, children and crime which ade- 
quately and thoroughly explain re- 
tardation and she suggests a simple 
expedient of keeping school houses 
open from three to six with supervised 
work, instead of driving the children 
out upon the street. The News com- 
ments editorially: 

Specialists in the field of research in 
juvenile behavior, sociologists, criminolo- 
gists and educators should give careful 
attention to the subject of retardation 
in the education of boys and girls. The 
relation of that injurious condition to 


238 


the problem of juvenile delinquency and 
crime is startlingly direct. The series of 
articles on this subject lately contributed 
to the Daily News by a teacher in Chi- 
cago’s elementary schools contained data 
which no educator or student of the 
evolution of criminals can afford to over- 
look. 

Those responsible for the administra- 
tion of the public-chool system of Chi- 
cago would do a worthy service to the 
community and a great kindness to city 
children if they would apply themselves 
to the solution of the problems related 
to retardation in educational training. 
No large sum of money would be re- 
quired to conduct an investigation for the 
purpose of obtaining data sufficient to 
prove or disprove the contention which 
was set forth in the series of articles by 
the earnest teacher who has presented in 
The Daily News the results of her ob- 


servations. 


PREJUDICE IN PANAMA 


E have received a letter, which 

the writer hesitated to send, be- 
cause “it does us few colored Ameri- 
cans no good to report anything these 
Crackers do, unless we are ready to 
take ship. But I just want you to get 
an idea of certain conditions here. In 
fact, no one, white or black, stays here 
if he talks too much. So if you men- 
tion any of this, please leave the name 
om erit.” ... 


Of course it is a foregone conclusion 
in the Canal Zone, that where the U. S. 
sentiment and law prevail, we expect, 
wherever the American white man has 
the least bit of authority, to be faced 
and embarrassed by this question, and 
now that it has become so pronounced in 
a Latin country, a Negro must expect to 
meet it and prepare to fight it wherever 
he goes. 

In the Young Women’s Christian As- 
sociation, which should be termed in 
large letters as the Young Women’s 
Segregation Association, it is an estab- 
lished fact that whites and blacks must 
be kept as far apart as possible. 

Mrs. for several years has been 
a supposed member of some kind of a 
Board and in charge of the colored work, 
which work has been a credit to the 
organization, but never once has she 
been invited, asked, or allowed to attend 
a meeting of said Board, where im- 
portant matters are discussed and views 
are given in connection with the carry- 
ing on of the work; she is colored. 

The Army and Navy Y. M. C. A. is 
also misnamed, for it was only a few 
weeks ago they refused to serve me a 
glass of soda water, unless I was willing 
to take it outside into the street and 





—_¥ 


drink it. White civilians, foreigners or 
what not can go in, drink up and eat up 
the building, if they want to; but I am 
colored, I must take mine into the street, 
I took the matter up with Mr. Cup. 
ningham, the Secretary, but he, as all 
the rest of them, puts it on the other 
fellow, and is unwilling to take a stand 
against the deviltry himself. 

But I think the climax of it all is the 
Catholic Church. “A man is known by 
his works”, so are organizations, and 
denominations. Please note the clip. 
pings I am enclosing herewith. I have 
some friends whose children were aj- 
fected by this discriminatory act. [i. ¢., 
the Christian Brothers of St. Joseph's 
Catholic College have turned out all 
Negro children. | 

Colored West Indians donate large 
sums of money here for the support of 
the Catholic Church. This is an unden- 
iable fact. 

In another church here, not Catholic, 
however, they have white people meeting 
at one hour with a white minister 
preaching to them, and at another hour, 
the Negroes meet under that same roof 
for their services, which are conducted 
by another white minister of the Gospel 
of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 
and yet these Negroes continue in large 
numbers to fall for that kind of stuff. 
They seem to like it. 

I sometimes wonder wherein does it 
profit a Negro to be a Christian if the 
white man is also a Christian. Both 
are right I guess. 

Racial discrimination therefore, with 
its foundation rooted in the heart of the 
American white man, and at the base of 
the Stars and Stripes, is destined to 
spread its poisoning influence through- 
out the length and breadth of the world. 
The Darker Peoples then, as one grand 
united army, must prepare to meet and 
repel this deadly enemy to human jus- 
tice. 


THEODORE BERRY 
E quote the following from the 
column of Alfred Segal in the 
Cincinnati Post: 

It was the first time it had ever hap- 
pened: The leading orators of the Uni- 
versity of Cincinnati had assembled for 
the annual contest of oratory, and 4 
colored boy was chosen the best the 
other night. 

Theodore Berry had come to this 
triumph over all the thorns that beset 
the way of the Negro. Poverty and un- 
derprivilege and prejudice have encum- 
bered his feet. 

* * x 

He was born in the Negro section 
of the West End which is a bitter 
world to be born in. Long ago the last 
(Will you please turn to page 248) 


Tue Crisis 











Fostacrift 


MEd Du Doce 































































up 
am 
eet, 
-Un- 
KRIGWA 1928 
all records and the promises of 
s of th - ‘onsi 
ther On Page 76 of the Marcu Crisis sons who seek their franchise We be caieene eats iar siete a 
tand and on Page 133 of the Aprit Crisis lieve that these numbers of THE inl I Saat 
2 we have already announced two sets and this enterprise will be of unusual hel Se office with a 
— of prizes for 1928. value to all readers. elper reading the stone-proof of the | 
by First, the Charles Waddell Chesnutt visiToRs magazine: last day, last hour. It must 
z Honoraria. These are prizes of $25, rar be down at 5 or the schedule of a great a] 
ne! $15 and $10 awarded anal taetlk ter e hard worker in a great mod- Printing house with 25 magazines to 
- one year beginning with the Aprit Shs 3 pF problem of the casual Print would be thrown out of kilter 
i ty number. We are pleased to announce ee a : aoe No one needs vis- 800 agents would await a late maga- 
a of prizes for June, 1928: — ore : an he: he needs the en- “NE; and 100,000 readers would yell: ; 
+ all First Prize. Poem, “Desive’, by the oo contact with on ’, We were working like hell j 
= __ Marjorie Marshall ..... $25.00 to keep human 7 office. He needs a an hour to finish an hour and 
a Second Prize. Poem. “Hope”, by chanical trend fh yaya Mi ia 
Georgi , anical trend o is city routine. “Miss Bli i 
iden- Third ae ea Fuale needs the knowledge heat ane . Seattle, « < See eet 
lic, — sin tie aan... 2 ce ee ee 
eting ee ee Ye $10.00 On a pace: i —— B. could just as easily have 
ister Second, i caiiie Wikais clinead ke Wael and, if visitors want called an hour later or an hour earlier. 
our, 5 Negro banks and 7 Negro insurance done wa sig it is because he tas Thre minutes om: the: setephene conid 
~~ societies as follows : Ag omr ing—has thought, written, have arranged a delightful visit with 
= rt Pie... $200. - - pe And if a man is go- two intelligent and educated women 
hrist, One Second Prize ...... 150. on Fifth — sips ~in whom I needed to see and question 
large One Third Prize ....... 100. *eageths venue, in a modern office, and explain. One knew Youth— 
oun Two Fourth ee. ao oe = ave periods of quiet, inten- mysterious, prophetic, eternal Youth. 
| Fight Prizes for Honor- = cone a — one knew Art, subtle, intriguing 
ms i — ee lh Lome e Visitor. He knows trick of thought—beauty of way and 
‘Both A total of $750. ing Hl ciates what the Worker is do- mean. I could learn something of 
t SR WAL UL we eee ewe ewe ° : ooo 
0 es ; ~ € wants to see him, to know both but not then and now—for a 
with ber 31. 1928. and _ c - Decem- a te ~ him. The Worker needs Ghost with dripping hands hovered 
wm > e awards will be °° told. He works i above m . 
: 2 oa. oe early spring of 1929, Unmeaning silence. His elie “oe proof e and I had to finish that 
ase 0 ead this and th . § 5 : : ° 
ee © tong —" previous an- echoes. No one seems to listen. No Well—I did not see them. As 
-ough- rise f efully. If you have one cares—What’s the use? And ‘ésult, I lost two good and h 1 
wank Rditor specific questions, write the et bursts the Visitor with out- ‘tiends. In vain did I ‘ihe aan 
grand . stretche hand and shinine eves explanation ay 
t and THE PRESIDENTIAL joy and laughter in his at The insulted to ree apeay onaoae 
n jus- T _ CAMPAIGN world lives and moves again F I en Spee 
nes a Dees to take un- But—both Visitor and Worker Py ine Bo we etre ' 
u est in the Presidenti _ must ; : 7 uman facts in q 
BE Whe belies thas — Cam- : . have some modicum of common Parison with divine thoughts. ous 
tee kero clit: e Negrohas ‘nse. The Visitor blows in town on 0t jump readily f : se 
nm th i. _— * poroe age. That holiday. He sleeps well, eats heartily ing mind to ae ae ‘3 
in the -— utelage and blarney are nd at eleven A. M : ae eee e glad hand. And yet \y 
and that Americans of Negro for THE Crisis eee ae Now frank and sympathetic comprehension \4 
r hap- mt are facing the necessity of vot- friend. Why not att — ost . » 4 problem and of the problem of 4 
e Uni- = intelligently, according to their and say: “I’m in aoe — phone - te Visitor might bring mutual under- e 
led for We ke and regardless of naiey, pom When eas free?” i: to see standing. (a 
and 2 ieve it is the duty of THe editor responds: “ ‘ nd the The problem has many ba 
est the Crisis, as the oldest organ of inde- 2? G i sagt Could you come at solutions: sound proof, i : mer ie 
ow th of inde- 2? cod!” All ; solu : roof, inner sanctums ran 
a a opinion among American Ne- happy. Both are ntl toy Both are which leave the public office rable | 
t beset tully present to these voters care- But if the Editor i . empty—‘Stepped out”; “in fer a 
: ully gathered and accurate inf . ; ditor is not asked and you ence’’; starin i : ee 4 
and un ae concerni curate informa- burst in on his poised pen; if you in- bei ; g printed signs about not 7 
coca taabete the red ay we There- terrupt a carefully arranged scaling — at home except at such and such a 
’ ust, September, Octo- or ah : ours; secret bells, like Bi , 4 
t and Novembe b ; a happy thought surging to be born s » like Bismark’s to a 
Crisis r numbers of THe —if you do this f summon oneself to mythical appoi a 
section , We are goin ‘ ) is for no other reason ments; ibis li rat 4 
Fi zoing over the candi- but th nts; or alibis like t ; a 
._ bitter ates and the political conditions in mut ih Roca lazy to arrange a of mine. I used t ra of a friend ay 
the i) oi section of the United States, in Editor : , i ae a oo ae offic ith sm oe 
e order to h ’ itor may be unhappy. e ce with smiles and 
old up to Negro voters the think that his co vey. Hie mey open ese, Xe poe er eee 
Jule mvenience has a right _welc ordially 
Crisis ¥. 1928 come, whether on business or with- 





239 





out—crank, book agent or prophet, for 
a few minutes or a few hours. 

“How do you do it?” I gasped, 
aghast. 

“Just waste the day,” he grinned. 
“Go home to dinner; take a nap, and 
work from Midnight to 4 A. M.!” 

“H’m!” I remarked. Two years 
later he had a stroke of paralysis. 

I have a colleague across the way. 
I have seen him stagger out of his of- 
fice at noon with death in his eye— 
Death of a Big Job—murder of a fine 
idea. Some friend had dropped in 
“just for a minute” and staid an hour! 

And so, let’s get together on this 
thing. I want to see you, Visitor, I 
really do. But can’t we compromise 
I'll go 


on the hour, if not the day? 
half way—honest, I will. 


Never mind Me, but respect my 
Work. My Work is cold, calm, re- 
lentless. It will be done now or never. 
It is merciless. It glares at me cruel- 
kind, malignant-gracious: 

“Tuesday’s Work undone? 
Here’s Wednesday’s!” 

I shriek in vain, wring my hands— 

“But Tuesday?” 

The Work answers, very softly and 
smooth: 

“There is no Tuesday. Tuesday is 
dead. Dead forever and forever. And 
Monday and last week and year 1927.” 

“But Tuesday’s work is not done,” 
I wail, and it echoes: 

“It shall never be done. Here is 
Today and Wednesday and this year. 
They are yours. Work or die.” 

Sometimes I seek to fool my Mas- 
ter, Work. I enter stealthily Wednes- 
day, lugging Tuesday’s undone task 
beneath my vest. He says no word. 
His face is grey and grim. I-know I 
can never deceive my Master. 

And yet often, when the finished 
Deed stands sleek before me, clothed 
like a Book, an Editorial, a Speech, a 
Letter,—I sigh and say: 

“IT have bought you with my 
Friends—and I have but few left.” — 

Not me, not me, Lord Visitor, craves 
your thoughtful sympathy and co-op- 
eration, but the Master. 

If we cajole him and seek to do his 
will, he may nod uneasily and sleep, 
snore and dream! Ah, when my 
Work dreams, that is the Kingdom 
and the Power and the Glory of my 
friends. Then we will smoke and eat 
and carouse and make love and play. 
He will awake to find us more than 
ready and wild with waiting. 

Happy are the workless and the 
Idle, who can just enjoy and need not 
think! But I, (woe is me!) I am the 
grandson of a Seventh Son, born with 
a Veil. From all Eternity I am sen- 
tenced to toil—and to love it. 


240 


Good! 


BEN BESS 


BLACK man &. South Carolina 
owned a farm and had a white 
family as tenants in 1914. With the 
husband’s tacit consent, he was inti- 
mate with the white woman. When 
he determined not to re-rent them their 
land the following year, the woman, 
at the husband’s command, accused the 
black owner of rape. The jury hesi- 
tated. The mob threatened lynching. 
So Ben Bess was convicted on the 
testimony of the woman and sentenced 
to 30 years in the penitentiary. He 
served 13 years. The South Carolina 
penitentiary is one of the filthiest and 
most degrading places of punishment 
in the world. It has been denounced 
in a report of white South Carolina 
citizens. No man could serve 13 years 
in such a place and be aught but a 
physical, mental and moral wreck. 
In May, 1928, the white woman 
came forward and made this volun- 
tary oath to the Governor: 


, of the countv and state 
aforesaid, and the prosecutrix in the 
case of the state against Ben Bess, 
charging him with assaulting and ravish- 
ing me, on which charge he was con- 
victed in June, 1915, at Florence, South 
Carolina, and sentenced to serve 30 
years. Realizing that I have not much 
longer to live, hereby desire as nearly 
as possible to undo the great wrong I 
have done this Negro, the said Ben Bess, 
and I hereby declare that my testimony 
upon the trial of this case was untrue 
and that Ben Bess should not be serving 
any sentence therefor.” 


Ben Bess has tuberculosis. His farm 
and all his property have gone to the 
lawyers. He is being released today 
under “suspended sentence”. There is 
every reason to believe that in hun- 
dreds of similar cases in the South, 
which have had no such revelation, the 
black partners of white paramours are 
still rotting in jail or dead at the 
hands of a lynching mob. 


CO-OPERATION 


LMOST from the _ beginning 

Tue Crisis has preached eco- 
nomic co-operation. We started a 
campaign 10 years ago in August 1917. 
A Crisis Editorial said: 

“Shall we try the old paths of in- 
dividual exploitation, develop a class 
of rich and grasping brigands of In- 
dustry, use them to exploit the mass 
of the black laboring people and re- 
produce in our own group all the in- 
dustrial Hell of old Europe and 
America? No! This method has been 
advocated but it has been advocated 
by people who did not realize the new 
spirit that has come to the industrial 
world. Slowly and with great diffi- 


culty this new spirit is going to work 
itself out in the white world; but if 
we American Negros are keen and 
intelligent we can evolve a new and 
efficient industrial co-operation quicker 
than any other group of people, for 
the simple reason that our inequalities 
of wealth are small, our group loyalty 
is growing stronger and stronger, 
and the necessity for a change 
in our industrial life is becoming 
imperative. Think of the teeming 
thousands, not to say millions, 
of colored workingmen who are liter. 
ally mad to get simply the ordinary 
decencies of employment, who are anx- 
ious and eager for proper industrial 
leadership on the part of their own 
people. 

“Brethren, the door of opportunity 
is open before us, leading to such king. 
doms as neither Alexander nor No- 
poleon ever dreamed of.” 

For a year we continued this preach- 
ing of consumers co-operation cul- 
minating in August 1918 with a meet- 
ing of representatives of seven states 
in THE Crisis office to forward such 
a movement. Out of this grew a num- 
ber of experiments—the grocery stores 
of Memphis, one or two efforts in 
West Virginia—between 25 and 50 
in all. Nearly all failed after some 
initial success, partly because some be- 
came profit-making shops and not co- 
operative, and others went down be- 
fore the competition of the Chain store. 
One flickering ray of hope remained: 
R. P. Sims of Bluefield, West Vir- 
ginia, wrote in August, 1920: 

“What do you think of suggesting 
through the columns of THe Crisis, 
the possibility of training persons in 
the co-operative idea by having the 
schools organize such ventures for the 
purpose of handling student supplies 
and also of giving some definite atten- 
tion to this subject in the work in 
economics ?” 

The experiment was made in Sims’ 
own school and its striking results told 
in the July, 1927, Crisis by W. E. 
Matney, who developed the idea. That 
summer a second conference was held 
in Tue Crisis office and in the last 
May Crisis we returned to the sub- 
ject suggesting a program broader and 
more embracing that consumer’s 00 
operation and suggesting that unless 
the American Negro begin some such 
broad co-operative program he 3 
doomed to serfdom. 

Manufacturing and consumer's ¢0- 
operation, based on a business traili- 
ing in co-operation, is the economic 
program which THE Crisis proposes 
to advocate from now on. A confer- 
ence will probably be held in New 
York this summer. If you are intet- 
ested, write. 


Tue Crisis 









resting 
ORISIS, 
ons in 
ig the 
‘or the 
upplies 
atten- 
ork in 


. Sims’ 
ts told 
W. E. 
_ That 
as held 
he last 
re sub- 
ler and 
r’s C0- 
unless 
re such 
he is 


r’s CO 
| train 
‘onomic 
TOPOses 
confer- 
n New 
e inter- 


Crisis 












ATLANTA UNIVERSITY 


IONEER in liberal education. 
P Advantages of a growing city and 
fraternal relations with other institu- 
tions of higher learning. College and 
Normal Departments. Practice teach- 
ing in grade and High School work. 
Graduates make good in Northern Uni- 
versities. 

FOR INFORMATION, Address 

President, Atlanta University 
The PrestTLANTA, GA. 













MorEHOUSE COLLEGE 
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College) 
ATLANTA, GA. 

College, Academy, Divinity School 


AN institution famous within recent 
years for its emphasis on all sides 
of manly development—the only insti- 
tution in the far South devoted solely 
to the education of Negro young men. 

Graduates given high ranking by 
greatest northern universities. _ Debat- 
ing, Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live fea- 
tures. 

FOR INFORMATION, Address 

JOHN HOPE, President 


Clark University 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 
“Culture for Service’ 


OVER 100 acres of beautiful campus. Twelve build- 

ings with new $215,000.00 Administration Build- 
ing with modern Chapel, Laboratories and Gymnasium. 
Clark University offers unusual educational oppor- 
tunities to aspiring young men and women. Terms 
reasonable. Departments: College of Arts and Sei- 
ence, Normal Training School, College Preparatory, 
Music and Home Economics. 












For information address 
M. S. DAVAGE, President 


Talladega College 


TALLADEGA, ALABAMA 


Sixty-first Year 
F. A. SUMNER, President 
UP-TO-DATE in its equipment. High standards 
of scholaship. Thoreughly Christian in its ideals. 


DEPARTMENTS: 
Theological Seminary, College of Arts and 
, Offering special courses in Educa- 
= Social Service, Music, Physical train- 













Six hundred students, 65 teachers and workers, 800 
acres, 35 buildings, electric lights, steam heat. 
Beautiful and healthful location in the foothills of 
the Blue Ridge. An ideal place for young men 
and women. Fer further information address 


M. B. MILLER, Registrar. 


Knoxville College 


KNOXVILLE, TENN. 


POPPE PPP PPP PP PPP PPP PPP PPP POP PPPPD 
Beautiful Situation and Healthful Location. 
Best Moral and Spiritual Environment. 
Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere. 
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work. 
PPLPLLP PLL PPS 


Fully Accredited for 
Teachers’ Certificates by State Board. 
Home-like Dormitory Life with Careful Supervision. 
Live Athletic and Literary Interests. 
COURSES: College, Normal, High School, House- 
hold, Arts and Music. 
Expenses Very Reasonable 
Catalog and other Hterature sent free upon request, 
Address: J. KELLY GIFFEN, President. 
KNOXVILLE, TENN. 













July, 1928 





HOWARD UNIVERSITY 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 


Founded by General O. O. Howard 


>) 


MORDECAI W. JOHNSON, President 
EMMETT J. SCOTT, Scretary-Treasurer 


Purpose 


Ty @ provide the Twelve Million Colored People of 
the United States with College-trained and 
Professional Leaders through its Courses in the 
Arts, the Sciences, in Education, Commerce and 
Finance, Public Health and Hygiene, Music, Engi- 
neering, Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Religion 
and Law. 


Students May Enter for Collegiate Work at the 
Beginning of Any Quarter 


MN CORREO x. ok 5 sis cotente ns co ob eas oes March 21, 1928 
IO: 5 NE a on sad. 6:0 cineur ces ag insivcgese saturn June 18, 1928 
I CIE soos 6b ng one cance es Sept. 24, 25, 26, 1928 


FOR CATALOG AND INFORMATION WRITE: 


F. D. WILKINSON, Registrar 


HOWARD UNIVERSITY Washington, D. C. 


The NORTH CAROLINA 
COLLEGE for NEGROES 


Formerly the Durham State Normal School 


OFFERS THE FOLLOWING COURSES 


1, THE LIBERAL ARTS COURSE 


Leading to the A. B. Degree and offering sufficient work in Secondary 
Education to enable students to secure High School Teachers’ Cer- 
tificates, Class A, and High School Principals’ Certificates at the com- 
pletion of the course. 

2. THE SCIENTIFIC COURSE 
Leading to the B. S. Degree. 


3. THE PRE-MEDICAL COURSE 


A two-year pre-medical course preparing students for entrance into 
medical colleges will be given. 


4. SPECIAL COURSES IN COMMERCE AND MUSIC 


tc te oe 


The faculty consists of men and women from the best colleges and universities 


: the country and meets the requirements of the North Carolina College Con- 
erence. 


FOR CATALOG AND FURTHER INFORMATION ADDRESS: 


THE NortH CaroLiINA CoLLEGE For N&GROES 
JAMES at a 


DURHAM, N. C. 


TRAINING OF 
KINDERGARTEN TEACHERS 














St. Mary’s School 


ATLANTA UNIVERSITY fs: Cian tee sail earls 
Professional Course of Two Years under the direction of the sisters of St. 
Address Mary. Address: THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE, 

Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 6138 Germantown Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa. 





241 



































in EET A cartier ROI fatale 





















There Is a Great Demand 


for Graduates of the DENTAL and PHARMACY Departments of Meharry 


Medical College. 


If you have had at least two years of College Work 


why don’t you apply for entrance to Dental Department, or if you_have finished 
High School you can enter our Pharmacy Department. DO IT NOW! 


Meharry Medical College 


Nashville, Tenn. 





Hampton Institute 
Hampton, Virginia 





THE COLLEGE 
1 DIVISION OF EDUCATION—four-year high- 
school er’s course leading to degree of 
Bachelor of Science; and two-year course 
for primary, intermediate and upper-grade 


2 DIVISION OF AGRICULTURE — four-year 
= leading to degree of Bachelor of 
ence. 


8 DIVISION OF HOME ECONOMICS—four- 
year course leading to degree of Bachelor 
of Science; and two-year course. 


-~ 


jegree 
and two-year course—aims te prepare men 
and women for business positions or te teach 
business subjects. 


5 DIVISION OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
—four-year course leading to degree of 


ye 
Bachelor of 
aims to train skilled builders. 


6 DIVISION OF LIBRARY SCIENCE—one- 


year professional course—aims to prepare 
librarians for normal schools, colleges and 


branch libraries in city systems. 


’ THE SUMMER SCHOOL—co: 
degree of Bachelor of 
Gortificates. 


8 DIVISION OF MUSIC—four-year course lead- 


ing to degree of Bachelor of Science. 
THE ACADEMY 


A standard four-year accredited high school, 
1 entrance. 


preparing for college 


TRADE SCHOOL 
Four-year courses in each of twelve trades. 


JAMES E. GREGG, Principal 
HAMPTON INSTITUTE, Virginia 






DIVISION OF BUSINESS—four-year course 
leading to di of Bachelor of Science 


Science; and two-year course— 


urses leading te 
Science and Btate 





Agriculturai and Technical 


College of North Carolina 
AT GREENSBORO 
An “A” Grade College 
An Agricultural Department 


Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 
Agriculture. 

A Technical Department : 
Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engi- 
neering and Architectural Engineering. 


A Science D t 
Courses leading to the degree of Bachelor 
of Science. 

A Department of Education 


Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 
Education, for the training of Vocational 
Teachers. 

A Trade Department 
Offering the following trades: ois 
Plastering, Carpentry, Cabinet M . 
Automobile Mechanics, Machine Shop Prac- 
tice, Tailoring, Shoe Making and Repairing, 
Plumbing, Electricity, Forging. 

A Standard Technical High School 
A High School which prepares students for 
~h and for Vocations. D 

A Strong Business Department 
Courses in Shorthan Typewriting, Book- 
keeping, Commercial Law. 


MODERN EQUIPMENT 
SPLENDID LOCATION 
MODERATE EXPENSES 


FALL TERM BEGINS SEPT. 17, 1928 
For further information, address 
F. D. BLUFORD, President 

A. & T. COLLEGE 
Greensboro, N. C. 
























THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANI- 
= conite locked q~ rick 
lorty tr: i ick - 
L Auto-Mechanies, Applied Electric- 
ity, otography, Printing, Machine Shop 


ice and Ta Z. 

THE WOMAN’S INDUSTRIES include 
othing, Millin iinery “Aosled 40, bauhe 
ing, Household anagemen : 

Home Crafts and Ladies’ Tailoring. 


THE AGRICULTURAL DEPART- 


a full four-year col- 


tific Farmers. 


Robert R. Moton, Principal 


t in addition to 


MENT with 1850 acres of land offers a 
r-year course in Second- 


Agriculture to 
train young men and women as Farm 
Demonstration and Home Demonstration 

Teachers of Agriculture and as 


TWO-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES are 
offered in Education for the training of 


The TUSKEGEE NORMAL and 
—— INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE 


Founded by Booker T. WASHINGTON 


Y 


TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALABAMA 


Y 


—————_—_— 





Offers Exceptional Opportunities to Negro Youth for Thorough Education in 
High School and College Courses and in Agriculture, Mechanical Industries and 
in Industries for Women. 


Teachers in Elementary Schools, for 
Teachers of Mechanical Industries; in 
Business Practice; in Home Economics; 
and in Technical Arts. 


FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES 
— to the Bachelor of Science degree 
are offered in Agriculture, in Home Eco- 
nomics, and in Education. 


THE HN A. ANDREW MEMO. 
RIAL HOSPITAL and Nurse Training 
rovides a three-year course in 

Nurse Training which qualifies its gradu- 
ates for registration in all southern states. 


A SUMMER SCHOOL FOR TEACH- 
ERS, of ten weeks, divided into two terms, 
beginning June Ist and meeting the re- 
quirements of the Boards of Education of 
all southern states. 


Location Unsurpassed 
Information furnished upon application 


William H. Carter, Treasurer 


League of Nations 
(Continued from page 224) 


the lives of Negro peoples—the Man. 
dates system, the Slavery Convention 
and the approaching Forced Laboy; 
Convention. It is impossible to r¢ 
main indifferent to the organization 
which is controlling the destinies oj 
12,000,000 Negroes directly and mil. 
lions more indirectly. Participation jn 
the development of our African 
brothers could only be directly achieve 
by representation on the Mandate 
Commission; but indirectly the meth. 
ods of educational and economic devel. 
opment of the American Negro are le. 
ing used as models for use in Man. 
dated areas, and no little attention js 
paid to the American Negro’s life, his 
difficulties, and his achievements to 
serve as guideposts, in making the 
Mandates system “the sacred trust of 
civilization”. 


Wanted To Be Red 
(Continued from page 226) 


. .. these tortuous doubts swamped his 
mind and filled him with a great fear. 
Back he went through the streets of 
the Greeners and he heard the deep, 
joyous laughter of his people, the 
abandon and hope of their singing, the 
ecstatic cries of the children as they 
played in the streets. From far down 
the road, he heard them chanting: 

My Lord’s 

Gonna move this wicked race 

O Lord 

This wicked race 

Gonna raise up a nation 


Shall obey... 


He stood listening for a long space 
at his doorway. He turned and 
climbed the steps like a man grown 
suddenly old and weary of his heavy 
burden. At the door of his mother's 
room, he paused. It was late but he 
could hear her and he went in. She 
looked into his face, and saw the sad- 
ness written there. She again said no 
word, but drew his head again upon 
her breast, and as he sobbed as though 
his heart had broken, she held him 
tightly, and in her eyes a strange light 
burned. After a long space, he left 
her silently, and this time his step 
upon the stairs was firmer and his eyes 
again flashed brightly. He stepped 
into his beloved laboratory which he 
had left so triumphantly but a short 
space before. He pressed the light 
button and walked up to the gleaming 
apparatus. He looked at it long and 
lovingly. His gaze travelled along the 
stone-topped table, and stopped sué- 
denly upon the thick book of notes 


Tue Crisis 







































































































































































“A 
ae 
uni 
sch 
coll 
leg 
I 
in 
s 
of 
cat 
der 
NC 


SFrzss-4 


= | 
= ily 








an. 
Ntion 
bour 
) Te 
ation 
eS of 

mil- 
On in 
Tican 
ieved 
ndate 
meth- 
level. 
re be. 
Man- 
ion is 
e, his 
ts to 
r the 
Ist of 


- space 
1 and 
grown 
heavy 
other's 
but he 
She 

ne sad- 
said no 
1 upon 
though 
id him 
e light 
he left 
is step 
lis eyes 
stepped 
rich he 
a short 
e light 
leaming 
ng and 
ong the 
od sud- 
f notes 


Crisis 





Lincoln University 
<< 


Pioneer in Collegiate and 
Theological Education 










Association of Colleges of 
accredited Wy tie States and Maryland. 













duates are Leaders in the 
LRCOLM Ciasions and in all parts of the 









Address: 


Wm. Hallock Johnson, President 
LINCOLN UNIVERSITY 
CHESTER COUNTY PENNSYLVANIA 


VIRGINIA UNION 
UNIVERSITY 


RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 


ATED as a class A college by the 
State Boards of Education in Vir- 
ginia and North Carolina, 


In addition to the general college cur- 
riculum, work is offered in the follow- 
ing departments : 
Teachers College Pre-Medical 
Theological Law 
Commercial 


For additional information 
address THE PRESIDENT 


SHAW UNIVERSITY 


Founded 1865 
Devoted exclusively to College 
and Theological work. 


“A” class college having a prestige in 5 
tion. Given erodutte seein ® 
universities of the aoe, ee = ig 
school, increasing emphasis is p' upon 
college standards and the promotion of col- 
lege spirit in scholarship and athletics. 

Sen iven: A.B., B.S., Th.B. and B.S. 
in nomics. 

Special attention is given to the training 
of log Areas: moderate. pend for 
catalog. resi- 

SH W UN(veRsiTY, & KALEIGH, 
NORTH CRROLING 





JOHNSON C. SMITH 
UNIVERSITY 


(Formerly Biddle University) 
FOUNDED 1867 


FOR MEN ONLY 


CLASS “A” College and High School, so 
recognized by the North Carolina State 
Board of Education. A Standard Theological 
Seminary. Member of the Association of Col- 
leges for Negro Youth. Large endowment. 


FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, address 
H. L. McCROREY, President 
Charlotte, North Carolina 






The Ancrum School of Music 


in Piano, Pi Organ, Violin, 
vet Theor Solfeggio, "Harmony, tion. 


fait Fine dormitory come. 
Dlrecter: MRS. ESTELLE ANCRUM FORSTER 


Graduate N.E.C., 1919-20. 
SEND FoR YEAR BOOK. ADDRESS: 


4 W. Rutland Sq., Boston, Mass. 


July, 1928 


that still lay open where he had left 
it. There lay all of the heart-aches, 
all the successes, all the milestones 
along the weary march of his discovery. 
There lay the liberation of a race, the 
freedom of a people. For but a mo- 
ment he paused, then with a quick 
movement, closed the book, lifted it 
from the table and carried it to the 
side of the room where his bunsen 
flame was still burning. He thrust its 
pages into the flame, and as the thin 
smoke arose, he felt as though his 
dreams, and Moda’s too, were dying 
there. He held it in his fingers till 
the flames licked too close. Then he 
pitched it under the hood, and watched 
it long till the embers died in the 
ashes. With the last spark, something 
seemed to fade in his brain, and he 
stood dazed and weakened at the thing 
he had done. He turned back to his 
table and his apparatus. His fingers 
toyed absently with some colored bits 
of cloth, remnants of some past ex- 
periment. Something he saw aroused 
him. A new thought, a fresh question 
awoke in his brain. He hurriedly made 
a few adjustments, mounted a piece of 
colored cloth and threw his switch. 
He reached down into a drawer of the 
table, took out a clean, fresh note- 
book, and after reading the thermom- 
eter, began writing .. . 

“It is noticed that at a temperature 
of 40 degrees C and at a pressure of 
three atmospheres, the _ electronic 
stream increases .. .” 


Schools in Oklahoma 


(Continued from page 228) 


pendent Districts is from $7.91 in 
McCurtain County, to $96.80 in 
Kingfisher. The extreme sums, how- 
ever, are not typical because of the 
small number of Negro children in 
some of the counties. In the Inde- 
pendent Districts 25% of the counties 
spend less than $23.74 per capita for 
Negro education. Fifty percent spend 
less than $35.15 and 75% spend less 
than $47.36 per capita. The average 
gives a higher score for these Inde- 
pendent Districts than the median. 


N the rural separate school districts 

25% of the counties pay less than 
$17.10 per capita, while the median 
score is $26.28. This indicates that 
50% of the counties of Oklahoma pay 
less than this amount per capita for 
Negro pupils in separate rural schools. 
Combining the data for all Negro 
schools in Oklahoma, we have the fol- 
lowing table: 


VIRGINIA NorRMAL AND 
INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE 
(Virginia State College for Negro Youth) 


PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA 
Classed as an “‘A”’ oofione. oe Virginia and Nerth 


The Sollee — an excellent FAGUIES. good 
curricula leading to degrees in 


Spring Quarter opens as . and Summer Quar- 
ter June 16. Expenses m 


Fer further eres write to 
Miss J. Louise Barrett, Registrar 


The Cardinal 


Gibbons Institute 


RIDGE, ST. MARY’S COUNTY, 
MARYLAND 

A school for Negro —— a, Rom wo- 

men of character and purpose urse of 


Junior High School grade fered “for the 
coming year. 


General Mechanics, Agriculture and Do- 
mestic Science are taught in parallel courses. 


Living conditions simple, healthful, well- 
supervised. 


For further information, address 


Victor H. Daniel, Princépal, 
Ridge, Maryland 








Bethune-Cookman 
Colle ge 


(Formerly The Daytona Normal 
and Industrial Inst.) 


DAYTONA BEACH, FLORIDA 


OCATED in the beautiful Halifax country on 

the East coast of Florida. An institution where 
opportunity is afforded for the highest and best in 
education. Offering courses in 


JUNIOR COLLEGE 
Normal Training School for Teachers 
College Preparatory 


PECIAL work offered in Commerce, Music, Do- 
mestic Science and Art, Agriculture and Car- 
pentry. 


Athletics encouraged for Boys and Girls. 


Dormitory Facilities unsurpassed. 


FOR INFORMATION, Write to 
Mary McLeod Bethune, President 


EpwarD WATERS COLLEGE 


JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 


An Ideal Christian Home Schoo in the Heart 
of Beautiful Florida 


For students unable to stand the rigors 
of a Northern winter. 


Grammar go Jucine High School, 
Senior Hi igh School, Normal School, 
heolo 


School of gy. Music, Commercial 
Courses, ae Courses leading to 
B.A. Degree, Manual Training, Domes- 
tic Science and Art, Band, Military 
Training for men, Physical education 
for women. 


Albert B. , Pres 
Bishep John Hurst, Charan Beard. of Trustece 























Paine College 


AUGUSTA, GA. 
Standard College Courses 


Approved Two-Year Normal . 


Accredited Senior High School 
Up-to-Date Junior High School 


“To develop leaders you must have 
the best possible equipment for liter- 
ary training and that is what we are 
striving for at Paine College”, said 
one of the leaders of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South. This Church 
contributes largely to the support of 
Paine College. 
see 


A Goop ScHOOL aT REASONABLE 
RATES 


For further information, address 
RAY S. TOMLIN, President 
PAINE COLLEGE 


The Atlanta School 
of Social Work 


INCORPORATED 


GOOD PAYING JOBS 
FOR 
TRAINED NEGROES 
IN SOCIAL WORK 


Prepares Men and Women 
for This Interesting 
Profession. 


A NEW DIRECTOR AND AN EX- 
PANDED PROGRAM THIS YEAR. 


For Further Information, Address 
the Director. 


Forrester B. Washington, A.M. 
Atlanta School of Social Work 
239 Auburn Avenue Northeast 

Atlanta, Georgia 


Simmons University, us, 57 
The institution in the State having for its 
object liegiate, Ministerial, Medical and Legal 
training for Colored Citizens in Kentucky. 

Special training in Insurance, Social Service, Nurs- 
ing and Hospital Work. 

Normal, Commercial, Music, Domestic Science, 


ry Training Class. 
Evening classes, dence course. Degrees 
offered. Cc. PARRISH, President. 


ATTENDANCE AND PER CAPITA EXPEND- 
ITURES IN ALL SCHOOLS FOR NEGROES 


(1925-1926) 


County Students 
Atoka 

Blaine . 

Bryan 

Caddo 

SED tas > one sens 


y 


SE sos ys 
Cherokee .. 
Choctaw . 
Cleveland 

Coal 

Commanche . 

Crai 

Cree ies 
Custer Dsatevaiien 
OE eee 
Garvin 

Grady 

OS ee a ee 
Haskell 

Hughes 

ackson .. 
efferson 

ohnston 


ay : 
Kingfisher 
Kiowa 
Latimer 
Leflore 
— 

gan 
Love . 
Major Lpakaitee voce 
Marshall .. 
Mayes 
Murray 
Muskogee 
McClain 
McCurtain 
McIntosh 
Noble 
Nowata 
Ckfuskee 
Oklahoma 
Okmulgee 


eeeesosescs 


or 
Sw 
SrybheSSSSeSSRBSeeReesSesSaneySesSrsesausensceyeeses 


. 


Seee8 


BSERSSBBSARESSSE o PERSSARSSBKSSLSESEN RBS 


BEBUESE 


8 


> 
2 
& 


BSB 
a-~ 
SeE3z 


sek 
gee 


te 
a Sine 
im to 
Saee 


: 


Pittsburgh 
Pontotoc 
Pottawatomie .. 
Pushmataha 
Rogers . 
Seminole 
Sequoyah 
Stephens 
Tillman 
Tulsa 
Wagoner 
Washington 


SSSes 
BERESSSRE 


10,244 
$1,456,143 


With a total of 48,133 students and 
expenditures for current expenses of 
$1,456,143, there is a range from $8.12 
per capita in Greer County to $147.25 
in Major County. Both these have 
very small enrollments. The median 
amount expended is $29.70. 

In evaluating per capita expenditure, 
funds expended for permanent im- 
provements were excluded. In many 
instances, this has served to lower the 
per capita for a particular county as 
maintenance expenses may have been 
cut down in order to appropriate a 
large amount for building purposes. It 
is just this feature, however, of the 
actual working out of legislation, 
which is objectionable. The Separate 
schools cannot float bonds as the Ma- 
jority and Independent Districts are 
allowed to do. Moreover, in the case 
of those allowed to float bonds, the 
school fund has been allocated between 
the races on the basis of current ex- 
penditure and this explains the poor 
buildings which many Negro schools 
have in wealthy communities. 

Oklahoma City is an example. If 
the county appropriated a large amount 
from its separate Negro school fund 


on 
ne 


Totals 


g 


for buildings, it would have to cy 
down on administration and other 
costs and give the amount saved to the 
Negro schools. Or it would have to 
cut down the amount given for main. 
tenance of the Negro schools. The 
county ought to be able to float bonds 
for building improvements of the 
Negro schools. But this question has 
never been taken before the courts, 


Race Discrimination 


I’. is not easy to ascertain the relg. 
tive expenditure for Negroes and 
whites in Oklahoma. ‘Taking the fig- 
ures of 1923-24, we have the amount 
expended by county for both Negroes 
and whites, and for 1925-6 the per 
capital expended for Negroes. The 
table follows: 


PER CAPITA EXPENDITURES 
Negro Both 
County 1925-6 1923-4 
Atoka , 
NINE sicbesp pct at deep seo sions SME “es 
PL Sacucuhserab. scien Sed<es t 4 
Caddo : 1.1 


Carter 
Cherokee 
Choctaw ... 
Cleveland 
Coa 


2x 


Fe RRRER SE 
HSELRSSSB 


an BEE Pol. oeertoeh 


Kingfisher . 
Kiowa .... 
Latimer 
Leflore .. 
Lincoln 


Love .i.e- 

Major 

Marshall .... anette asi 
DERE |. intecs.oe ks ipedindichaats 
Murray 

Muskogee .« 

McClain 

McCurtain .. 

McIntosh . 

Noble 

Nowata 

Okfuskee enadcceeetiabhess 
CD doh F. dos cncecs sabes 
Okmulgee . 


SRR BSSSSSS! 
Skeane 


SRSBRRSSS 
SBESReRree 


BBBEB: 


ESRBRRASS 
sReesaee 


=e: 


Sune 


Payne .. 

Pittsburgh 

Pontotoc 

Pottawatomie 

Pushmataha 

NED. Sunes .e0sess0 

Seminole 

MIEN 555.06 ce0s ss 00baeed ss « 

Stephens 

Tillman . 

Tulsa 

Wagoner 

Washington Sua ieste knee 
Grand Averages....... 


HERE is no doubt but what the 

figures for 1925, if they could be 
obtained, would show even more 
marked variations. In 1922, the per 
capita of expenditure for whites was 
$44.83. For Negroes in that year it 
was $25.01. In 1923 the two sums 
were: $43.60 and $25.83. In 1926, 
the Negro per capita had risen to 
$30.25. For the entire state and in 
36 of the counties the per capita for 


Tue Crisis 








cut 
ther 
» the 


€ to 
lain- 
The 
onds 

the 
has 


rela- 
and 
- fig: 


ount 


BRRSS 
Ceoeene 


BESS 
FSez 


ao 
Bese 


= 
= 


SSSSSSE 


RERSSAISR SS 


te 
Base eeeeeeRevesaes 


Bes 
es 


gE 


July, 1928 


education was less than the per 
= for both races in 1923-24. 
There is no doubt but that in all 
counties where any considerable Negro 
population exists, Negroes do not re- 
ceive equal per capita in Oklahoma as 
required by law. Of course, without 
exception, all the counties in which a 
considerable Negro population live, 
show wide variation in the sums ex- 
pended on the education of the Negro 
and the white child. If under present 
conditions the counties with a large 
Negro population were compelled to 
spend equal sums, they would cut 
down on their expenditures for roads 
and general administration. Thus the 
present unfortunate system actually 
penalizes the counties which have large 
Negro school population, as compared 
with other counties which have practi- 
cally no Negro population. Already 
the program of Negro education in 
Oklahoma has been transferred from 
the school district to the county dis- 
trict in the majority of cases. It is 
imperative now that the delegation of 
responsibility be continued so as to 
make the state the central educational 
unit for what is and should be a state 
responsibility. In this way, counties 
with no Negro population would aid 
in bearing the cost now imposed upon 
areas where such population exists. If 
we compare the per capita expenditure 
for Negro education it is easy to see 
that Tulsa County with $48,779 in 
taxable property for each Negro child 
has a much smaller program in: financ- 
ing Negro education than McCurtain 
County, which has but $3,852. If $50 
per capita is reasonable expenditure on 
Negro children, the following levies 
would have to be made in the follow- 
ing counties : 


Taxation in. 
tenths of a mill 


I 5 ooh atrial y eare ches 4 
FRE ics cc see areas pteusedbave~ewasshin 5 
EN ighh0 = 008060008 cagsaees'esan ae 
Pittsburgh .... He bath uteeiebedoue 1.6 
eed Rs itoy 43> ne 6s amis io inti a was 1.8 
ulgee ..... 60 ss teens Cee wens TeOsane we 
Muskogee ........ a 
Pes... 0000 a 
ON as. ce vcev'es bates ae 7.4 
No 6.5. Feel e ran acs aoe 


HIS is a striking proof of present 
1 inequalities, rather the disinclina- 
tion of various counties to educate their 
children, It is clear that Negro schools 
in Oklahoma are going to remain be- 
low par just as long as the county re- 
mains the unit of financial support. 
Turning now to the salaries of 
teachers, we have the following com- 
parisons : 
AVERAGE SALARIES OF TEACHERS 


White Negro 
Independent Districts... .1993 $1,237 $956 
1925—26 


. . 945 

Rural Districts............ 1923 837 «4517 
Xe 1925—26 602 

All Districts .............. 1925—26 745 


We may add to this the salaries for 
tural teachers in twelve selected Okla- 








Guarding the Citadel 


Resources 
over 
3f,000,000.00 
pres 
Insurance 
in force 
375,000,000.00 
so Cqang>e> 

Farst—in Size 
\ et in Service ana 


ne ( an Strength 
Ais. Sve % i 


ooo oho eted 


~ 
~ - 
cx 


wT) H] 


VERY Negro in America has a tremendous 
stake in guarding this Citadel over which the 


National Benefit stands sentinel. The lives of ~~ ~ 


our children and our children’s children—for genera- 
tions yet unborn—these too are vitally concerned in 
the manner of its guardianship. For the citadel is the 
Citadel of Negro Commercial Progress, and in its 
protection and strengthening lies our hope as a Race 
to obtain for ourselves—and those to follow us— 
the splendor of Equal Opportunity and Higher 
Standards of Living and Attainment. 


Against all invaders, over nearly three decades of 
years, the National Benefit has held every breach, 


repelled every attack, kept intact this stronghold of 
the Race. 


As the largest and strongest Negro enterprise—as 
the greatest Negro financial institution on earth— 
the post is ours by right as well as by choice. 


Stand with us—do business with Negro enterprises— 
insure in Negro companies—their future is the fu- 
ture of the Race. 


THE NATIONAL BENEFIT 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 











a - - 


<meta cme ae itt oh tenement 

























eR 


oss’ einobauoabenienighnen-ioanceaseeabiaiacs:ioedieoaesenresaienaetsiatiii 


sonore 













Let 


Consumers Service 


Serve You 


ON’T WORRY BECAUSE 

YOU DON’T HAVE THE 
MONEY to take advantage of cer- 
tain bargains and later worry 
again because you have the money 
and no bargains seem available. 


BARGAIN TAKES ADVAN- 

TAGE OF YOU whenever 
you buy what you don’t need sim- 
ply because the price is marked 
down. 


UR GUARANTEED SERVICE 

SAVES FOR YOU by secur- 
ing at a worth while discount 
what you need when you want it. 
Consequently you may dismiss the 
anxiety of bargain hunting and 
get the standard merchandise you 
prefer. 


HE COST OF THE SERVICE 

IS SMALL. We are con- 
vinced that you will continue to 
use it after you have tried it. On 
this account we are offering the 
service to you free of charge for 
the first sixty days, after which 
you will pay, if satisfied, the nom- 
inal charges of $5.00 a year, $2.75 
for six months or $1.50 for three 
months. 


PPROPRIATE GIFTS FOR 
ALL OCCASIONS — also 
shoes, clothing, leather goods, 
music, stationery, pennants, 
badges—in fact practically any- 
thing you need. 


CONSUMERS SERVICE 

GEN. P. O. BOX 18, 

New York City 

Yes. I will try your service for 
sixty days. If it is satisfactory I 


will take advantage of the same 
for a period of 


One year $5.00 as checked 
Six months ... 2.75 


Three months . 1.50 


I am especially interested in se- 
curing best prices on the following 


merchandise 





EXTRA MONEY FOR YOU 


Take orders for our popularly priced line of 
Calling Cards, Business Cards, Fraternal 
Cards and Monogrammed Stationery. | Good 
rite tor 


pay; big demand; outfit furnished. 
samples and terms. 


THE HOUSE OF CHOWNING 


627 Cleveland Ave. Indianapolis, Ind. 


Sell THE CRISIS in your agmeneinity or recom- 
mend persons who have energy and the ability to 
represent us acceptably. 


For particulars write the 


Director of Agencies 


THE CRISIS, 
69 Fifth Avenue New York City 


246 





homa counties where there is the largest 
Negro school population. 
When compared with white teachers 


SALARIES OF TEACHERS - 
Negro 


County Men Men 
ee eae $1,238 
Choctaw 874 $365 
Creek ..... on ee vie 1,510 1,000 
EM are 2. su. +: 87 akree 839 721 
NS an wis: oot i 998 988 
Se 453 
McCurtain .. ie teks « sora 836 505 
ere 554 
Oklahoma .. av Nabe. sovy. «Oe 1,272 
Okmulgee .. si: usw Sid oan sede 738 
Tulea ..... is Ks 1,542 612 
Wagoner 1,006 575 


in rural districts, the Negro teacher 
is underpaid in every county listed 
above. The ratio of underpayment 
varies from more than 2 to 1 in Choc- 
taw and Okfuskee counties to a very 
slight difference in Oklahoma county. 


Efficiency of the Schools 


One measure of the efficiency of any 
school system is afforded by the degree 
to which it holds its students. In the 
Oklahoma Separate and Independent 
Districts 1924-25, we have the follow- 
ing figures for 47,811 pupils: 


Grades 


ro 28.8% 
2 . 12.3 
© spb ns$00ien b<e a 500 yheinancreier seen neh 12.5 
B wvccse os ss - 12.3 
Bicaice.2e 10.6 
foe 7.9 
Dhaene, 005.0: 9a eEeEn Osh aw 5.7 
sites, artes ihc <b ee vee 4.2 
D. awewees se sncemewwe o 2.0 
Mi Sinw ah Senshow << semeer et Cav Kao 1.2 
11 0.8 
BB cvcoce cone 0.7 


In other words, only 4.7% of the 
pupils enrolled in the entire system are 
in the high school grades. There is 
an especially abrupt loss at the begin- 
ning of the sixth grade, and there is a 
much larger shrinkage among Negro 
pupils than among whites. One reason, 
of course, is the economic and social 
pressure and to this must be added the 
inferior school accommodations for Ne- 
groes and the fact that in many rural 
districts no high school grades are pro- 
vided at all for Negroes. Among Ne- 
groes, too, the males leave school in 
greater proportion than the females. 
This is true among whites but it is 
accentuated among Negroes. Teach- 
ing forms almost the only avenue of 
economic escape for Negro girls and 
in the long run it means that the wo- 
men are being better educated than the 
men with resultant difficulties in mar- 
riage alliances. 


ee om A 
(Continued from page 229) 


have their own correspondents in 
Europe and Asia, have clubbed to- 
gether. They have clubbed together 
in the Associated Press, the United 
Press and other newsgathering and 
news distributing agencies, which serve 


all the member newspapers alike. 
In recognition of the effort and ey. 
pense involved in this purveying of 


RURAL DISTRICTS ('25-'26) 


White Negro All All 
Women Women Whites Negrees 
$909 $1,016 $713 

715 $339 767 343 
1,194 728 1,307 1 
789 688 802 me 
+4 wes 899 810 

388 1 401 

614 375 680 410 
925 486 1,024 501 
851 795 891 Re 
1,036 657 1,118 673 
966 835 1,145 734 
916 597 936 501 


news, the newspapers universally give 
credit to the source of what they print, 
If the Associated Press furnished the 
news item, they print the letters A. P. 
or “By Associated Press”, by way of 
acknowledgement and of giving credit 
where credit is due. It is just like 
quoting from someone’s book. When 
you quote from another man’s book, 
you do not leave it to be assumed that 
the passage quoted is your own. It js 
put in quotation marks and usually the 
name of the source is given. 

In this matter of giving due credit, 
some of the colored editors still lag be- 
hind. For the most part, almost uni- 
versally, when a news item is printed, 
or an editorial copied, they are fair 
enough to acknowledge their indebted- 
ness to the source of their material. 
But there are some few who seem 
either ignorant of their obligations, 
or deliberately desirous of being unfair. 

Now the N. A. A. C. P. each week, 
sends to colored editors all over the 
country, a press service, containing 
news of interest to colored readers. 
This news comes from friends in Eng- 
land, Germany and France; from cor- 
respondents in the South; from pub- 
lishers and magazine editors ; from pub- 
lications both American and European. 
Incidentally, when there is need for 
concerted action by colored people 
throughout the United States, for the 
common good, the N. A. A. C. P. press 
service enables the colored editors 
quickly to inform their readers. And 
the results obtained have often been 
astounding. 

This N. A. A. C. P. press service 
goes free of charge to every colored 
editor in the United States who asks 
for it, and who prints it without dis 
torting the items sent him, giving due 
credit to the source. About 95 per 
cents of the colored editors faithfully 
observe these rules of common decency. 

But there is a five per cent which 
does not. I have before me a colored 
newspaper published in Chicago claim- 
ing to have the largest circulation of 
any in the country. On the first page 
of its second section, issue of May 19, 
this Chicago colored newspaper quotes 
an editorial from the New York 


Tue Crisis 





W orl 
torial 
lynchi 
1928, 
speci 
sociati 
ored | 
forma 
newsp 
publis 
them | 
N. A. 
inform 
Yet 
in dire 
went 
The ( 
of the 
vancer 
the ed 
the N 
from t 
N. A. 
was a. 
decenc 
Col 
unfair 
white 
too oft 
compla 
must ( 
opinior 
colorec 
of the 


(( 


Johnso 


are at 


other ; 
Indian 
story ¢ 
dice we 
As Mr 
or thr 
gether 


and D 


public 
says th 
Warliki 
and fr 
to ene 
with 
Says, ig 
ure of 
iNcur { 

Sche 


July, ; 





id ex. 
1g of 


_All 
Vegroes 


$713 


ly the 


credit, 
ag be- 
it uni- 
rinted, 
e fair 
ebted- 
terial. 

seem 
ations, 
unfair. 
week, 
er the 
‘aining 
eaders. 
1 Eng- 
m cor- 
n pub- 
m pub- 
pean. 
ed for 
people 
for the 
>. press 
editors 

And 


n been 


service 
colored 
10 asks 
ut dis- 
ng due 
95 per 
ithfully 
lecency. 
which 
colored 
» claim- 
tion of 
st page 
Tay 19, 
+ quotes 

York 


Crisis 


World. The New York World edi- 
torial commented on the absence of 
iynchings in the first four months of 
1928, breaking a 39-year record, and 
specificially credited the National As- 
sociation for the Advancement of Col- 
ored People with publishing that in- 
formation. More than thirty white 
newspapers throughout the country 
published such editorials, every one of 
chem taking care to properly credit the 
y. A. A. C. P. as the source of their 
information. 

Yet the Chicago colored newspaper 
in directly quoting the World editorial 
went to the trouble of mutilating it. 
The Chicago Defender cut the name 
of the National Association for the Ad- 
vancement of Colored People out of 
the editorial it was quoting from the 
the New York World. Quite aside 
from the animus it displays against the 
vy. A. A. C. P. this act of mutilation 
was a gross offense against the common 
decency of newspaper practice. 

Colored editors often complain of 
unfair treatment at the hands of the 
white press. And their complaint has 
too often been justified. But for their 
complaints to have force colored editors 
must come before the court of public 
pinion with clean hands. Let the 
colored editors not be in the position 
f the pot which calls the kettle black. 

H. j. &. 


The Browsing Reader 
(Continued from page 231) 


Johnson, that Negroes in the North 
are at last having their first real con- 
tact with skill. 

White is to black as gold is to silver 
in Panama, according to W. A. Gas- 
kin, writing of race discrimination in 
the Nation for May 30. ‘There are 
two classes of employees in the Canal 
Zone, the one designated as the “gold”, 
or white American employees, and the 
other as the “silver”, or black West 
Indian employees. Here again is the 
story of the same sort of race preju- 
dice we meet in the heart of the South. 
As Mr. Gaskin says: ‘Wherever two 
or three Americans are gathered to- 
gether in any region below the Mason 
and Dixon line, the race question is 
present also,” 

H. N. Brailsford writes on “Egypt, 
Empire and League”, in the New Re- 
public for May 30. Mr. Brailsford 
‘ays that the Egyptians never were a 
warlike race, and that they endure, 
and from all indications, will continue 
‘0 endure, the grossest oppressions 
with slavish quiescence. Egypt, he 
“8, 18 aS prone to incur the displeas- 
ue of Downing Street, as Cuba is to 
‘ncur that of Wall Street. 

School in the purple-splashed har- 


July, 1928 


THE FRANCIS E. W. HARPER 





Burrell Memorial Hospital 
Training School for Nurses 
ROANOKE, VA. 






A PLAY Sitctt*as iy 


GIVES more iaughs and puts more cash inte the 
than Entertainment that a Chureb or 
Club can have. Bverybody likes to attend the 


Slabtown District 


State accredited. Three year course 
in general nursing. 50 bed hospital. 
On approved list of American Col- 
lege of Surgeons. Free tuition, board 
and room, text-books, uniforms ; also 
monthly cash allowance. Ideal loca- 
tion, 1,000 feet above sea level. Only 
High School graduated admitted. 








Convention 


It is a scream and at the same time it is Sense— 
Because it teaches a number of good lessons. 


GET IT AND GIVE IT—PRICE S00 
Miss Nannie H. Burroughs 


Author and Publisher 
LINCOLN HEIGHTS WASHINGTON, DO. CG. 


—_—__  _______‘4 
Write to, Ethel M. Bigham, R. N. 
Supt. of Nurses 


CRISIS 
PERSONAL STATIONERY 


Suitable for Your Daily and Most 
Particular Correspondence. 


Your Name and Address or 
Monogram richly EMBOSSED 
(not printed) on extra heavy, fine 
quality Stationery. Each sheet 
and envelope is marked with lus- 
trous raised letters, giving the 
appearance of costly die-engraving and at less than half the price 








T 
Send us your 3 year sub- 


scription ($4.50) to THE 
CRISIS and we will send | | 1 forge shots 7s inhen, Sieg 
you a box of CRISIS PER- DODGE oi o60 cadedpeecsacsceqenceess 


200 single sheets (100 embossed and 100 


SONAL STATIONERY = and 100 envelopes, em- 9,00 


ssed 


Social Size—Bond Paper 
ee 


Meets the demands of people of 
refinement and good taste. 


For embossing all 200 single sheets 
add 50 cents. 

Colors of Paper—White, Grey, Blue or 
Bisque (Sand). 

Colors of Embossing—Black, Blue, Green 
or Gold. 


with our compliments, or if 
you prefer, just order sta- 
tionery at rates quoted. 








Prices include 1, 2 or 3 lines of wording or your monogram. Additional lines, 15c per line. 
Postage prepaid east of Mississippi. To Western points, Canada and Island Possessions, 
add 10% extra per box. Foreign countries, add 50 cents. 


ENCLOSE CHECK, MONEY ORDER OR CURRENCY WITH ORDER — SHIPMENT IN 
ABOUT FIVE DAYS. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED OR MONEY REFUNDED. 


THE CRISIS MAGAZINE 
69 Fifth Avenue New York City 











GIRLS’ DORMITORIES 
1424 Christian Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


Heme Privileges and Special Rates to Students 
and Professienal Women. 


MISS JESSIE M. WATKINS, Supt. 


Learn It—Remember It 


A short (but mighty good) Summer Course in 
Typewriting starts at The Stenographers’ 


Our new plan enables 
of our fine made-to-order suits, in any 


to get one 


Institute, 1227 S. 17th St., Phila., Pa., July 
2nd and ends August Sist. The school has a 
high standard of efficiency. Write Edward T. 
Duncan, Principal. 














































































































































a ase 


iat secu macnemer ratte DCS IM TT OE 











A janice S 
tote ance RE 





ner 








































































































































MORGAN (COLLEGE 


John O. Spencer, President 


John W. Haywood, A.M., S.T.D., Dean 

LOCATION:—College town between North 
and South. 

COURSES:—Semester Credit System. A.B., 
B.S., and B.S. in Education degrees. 
Advanced courses in Education Certifi- 
cates for high school teaching. 

RATING:—Accredited by the Association of 
Colleges and Preparatory Schools for the 
Middle States and Maryland, by the 
State Board of Education in Maryland, 
and other States. 

POLICY :—Co-educational. 

FACULTY:—University trained specialists. 

SITE:—Eighty-five acres, beautiful scenery, 
athletic fields. 

DORMITORIES:—Equipped and supervised. 

SUMMER SCHOOL:—(1928) Six weeks, 
June 25th to August 3rd. 

oeenaaas OPEN:—September 23, 
1927. 


REGISTRATION:—Sept. 23rd and 2th, 1927. 


INFORMATION :—Address Edward N. Wil- 
son, Registrar, Morgan College, Balti- 
more, 


Wiley College 


MARSHALL, TEXAS 
M. W. DOGAN, President 
H. J. MASON, Executive Secretary 
Ideals, Traditions, Standards of the Finest Quality. 
Faculty composed of high grade teachers. 
Maintains following departments: 

\ High School, Extensicn, Correspon- 
dence, ic, Commerce, Home ics, Founda- 
tion for Study of Prohibition and the Negre— 
both research and publicity phases. 

Offers abundant opportunity to students for train- 

ing in qualities of leadership. 

Excellent student personnel, fine College atmos- 
. activities. 


Championship athletic teams. 
Graduates admitted on approval to best universities. 
Diploma recognized in number of states. 


For further information, write the Dean or 
REGISTRAR. 


LIVINGSTONE COLLEGE 
An “A” Class College 
Founpep sy J. C. PRICE 
SALISBURY, N. C. 
CO-EDUCATIONAL 
BERETS SE OEE 
ERY ONG FACULTY 
Offers the Following Courses: 


TEROLOGICAL Hicu ScHoo. 
Lipseat Arts anp SCIENnceEs 
Domestic Arts anp SCIENCES 
Commenciar Music Teacher TRaininc 


4S eich 8 ae ing with Distinct 
180. 
All Athletics 
Fer Further Information Address 
W. J. TRENT, 
James Edward Mason, Financial Secretary 


STORER 


Rust College 


GOING TO COLLEGE? 
Come to Rust College—Beautifully 
Located. Students from 
Fourteen States 


to 


College of Liberal Arts, Standard 
Normal, Home Economics, Music, 
Junior and Senior High Schools. 


Efficient Faculty. New Equipment fer 
Laboratories, Enlarged Library. 
Rates Reasenable 


For further information write 


President L. M. McCoy 
Holly Springs Mississippi 


Allen University 
Columbia, S. C. 
A Co-Educational Institution 


Offering Courses in 
THE JUNIOR COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 
ARTS AND SCIENCES 
THEOLOGY MUSIC COMMERCE 
HOME ECONOMICS 
TEACHER TRAINING A SPECIALTY 
DEGREES: A.B., B.D., Th.B., 
A.B. in Education 
Approved by the State of South Caroline. Aided 
by the Slater Fund and the General Education 
Boerd. Facilities increased this year. 


DAVID H. SIMS, President 


BISHOP JOHN HURST, 
Chairman Trustee Board 


Florida Normal and 


Collegiate Institute 


ST. AUGUSTINE, FLORIDA 
(The Ancient City of Sunshine Land) 


Junior HicxH 
Senior HicH 
TEACHER TRAINING 
Junior CoLtece Courses 
Pre-MEDICAL AND VOCATIONAL CourRSES 


Fer further information address 
NATHAN W. COLLIER, Pres. 


COLLEGE 


. 
HARPERS FERRY, W. VA. 
Magnificent location of race scenic and historic interest. Junior College, Normal, High 
School Courses, Music, Domestic Art, Religious influences, Non-sectarian. 
Anthony Hall being rebuilt and ready September 1. Funds for a fine new Domestic 


Science Building provided and soon to be erected. 


For Catalog, address Registrar. 


THE PRIDE OF CAROLINA 


STATE AGRICULTURAL AND MECHANICAL COLLEGE 
ORANGEBURG, SOUTH CAROLINA 


THE 


OST DISTINGUISHED OF: THE 


SEVENTEEN LAND GRANT COLLEGES IN 


AMONG M 
ORGANIZATION, EQUIPMENT AND COURSES LEADING TO BACHELOR DEGREES, INCLUDING 


TWENTY VOCATIONS. 


FIFTY MODERN BUILDINGS AFFORDING AMPLE oA FOR DORMITORIES, LABORATORIES, 


RECITATIONS AND EXTRA-CURRI 


ALUED AT $1,000,000.00 


; ACTIVITIES, 000,000.00. 
os — FROM THE BEST INSTITUTIONS IN AMERICA. FALL SESSION BEGINS SEPTEMBER 


ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE ON Saneesy. 


. 8. WILKINSON, President. 


vest fields—school in the cool, budded 
spring—school in the hot, leafy cor 
fields—this is the picture of Penp 
School in St. Helena’s Island which 
Rossa B. Cooley paints in the June 
Survey Graphic. On this dusky seq 
isle, an all year school, close to the life 
of the community, moves with the foy: 
seasons and touches vitally the lif 
of a rural people. Miss Cooley says 
that it will take some time for Penn 
School, with “Acres for Class Rooms” 
to prove itself, but that the experimen: 
is quite worth the time and money ey. 
pended. Winold Reiss illustrates the 
article with portraits from life. 

Julia Peterkin writes of “A Proud. 
ful Fellow”, in Century for May, 
This story is different from the usual 
popular magazine story only in the fact 
that its white-souled characters are 
ebony-hued, and that they. have been 
transplanted from the usual city apart 
ment house to a hidden rural comm. 
nity. Miss Peterkin weaves the in. 
evitable “triangle” story about the love 
and trust and admiration of Earth 
Wine for his slender, golden wife; and 
how she sent him off on a mission of 
duty so that she might be able to 
shower her love on her brother-in-law. 
Earth returns at the dramatic moment 
and in the manner of the true trage- 
dian, pulls out his gun and kills his 
adored one. 

MAarvEL JACKSON. 


The Far Horizon 
(Continued from page 238) 


tree was cut down there, and beauty 
perished, and greenswards withered, and 
only white landlords fatten. 

* * x 

He entered the university, work- 
ing his way. In the summer time he 
went to Detroit where he served a 
a red-cap in the Michigan Central Rail- 
way Station, carrying baggage for the 
people, saving tips for his education 
During the winter months he tended the 
library of Harriet Beecher Stowe School 
in the afternoons. 

And, so four years passed and the time 
came for the oratorical contest. Others 
in the contest had only their own glo 
at stake in it; he must win for the sake 
of his people that men might think mort 
generously of them. 

If he won, there might be here and 
there a person in whose heart would be 
sown one seed of tolerance, friendliness 
or respect. 

a oe 

Eight were in the contest and he 
was the sixth to speak. The aud- 
ence was already a bit tired from hear- 
ing five orations. This was a handicap 
but he had from birth carried hand 
caps; to be a Negro is a handicap. 

The audience stirred from its torpor 
when the Negro boy launched into 
oration. His was more than his ow 
voice, but the voice of all his peopl 


Tue Criss 












































udded 
’ corn 
Penn 
which 
June 
KY sea 
he life 
1e four 
re life 
-Y Says 
* Penn 
ooms”, 
‘iment 
ney ex- 
tes the 


Proud- 

May, 
€ usual 
the fact 
TS are 
7e been 


y apart- 


ssion of 
able to 


-in-law. 


moment 
e trage- 
cills his 


KSON. 


38) 


1 beauty ( 


red, and 


, work- 
time he 
erved as 
ral Rail- 
for the 
ducation. 
-nded the 
ve School 


| the time 
Others 
wn glory 

the sake 
ink mort 


here and 
would be 


iendliness 


and he 
‘he audi- 
-om heat- 
handicap, 
ed handi- 
‘ap. 
its torpor 
1 into 
his own 
1is people 


g Cais 





‘ao for justice. He was speaking 
gro ter called his people was 
one of them. Wasn’t Christ of the 
minority? he asked. Wasn't Socrates? 
Wasn't Galileo? And weren't Christ 
and Socrates and Galileo persecuted? 

_ And hadn’t the opinion of mankind 
vindicated them in the fullnes of time. 

And when the eight orations had been 
completed, the judges did not take long 
to decide that Theodore Berry’s was the 


best. 

He had beaten through another door 
for himself; he had gained a glory for 
his people . . . There are harder doors 
still to be beaten down. 

os ok aa 

Next year Theodore Berry will enter 
law school. 


MR. McGROARTY AND THE 
CRISIS 

OHN STEVENS McGROARTY, 

who writes an interesting page, 
“Seen From the Green Verdugo 
Hills’, for the Sunday Magazine of 
the Los Angeles, California, Times, 
and who staged the magnificent pag- 
eant “California”, has just renewed his 
subscription to THE Crisis. And this 
is the way he talks about it in his 
column : 


Well, as we were saying, it is amazing 
the number of-magazines that are turned 
off the printing presses in this country, 
and a lot of them maybe not worth 
reading. 

Now, we, ourself, have not the time 
to read more than a few magazines each 
month. But there is one that we always 
read. And just the other day we dug 
up $1.50 for another year’s subscrip- 
tion to it. We just can’t do without it, 
if only for our soul’s sake. 

We think of this magazine as a crystal 
spring at which we drink. Its literary 
contents are of the very finest degree of 
excellence. It contains the best poetry 
and the purest prose that we are able 
to find anywhere in current publications. 
We would gladly go fasting one day in 
the year to save up $1.50 that we might 
not be without the delight of this lovely 
thing. 

It is a magazine published by Negroes, 
contributed to by Negroes and managed 

Negroes. 

The American people at large cannot 
possibly be aware of the great fact that 
among Negro people of our country 
there has been created by themselves a 
marvelous world of their own in which 
beauty and culture sit enthroned. 








REACTIONS 
OMETIMES it is difficult to 
fathom or predict the sort of re- 

action that Americans have toward 
colored people. Here are two which 
are typical. There is published in 
Chicago by a lodge of white Masons, 
a little paper called the Pleodian. 
From the July, 1927 number we quote 
the following : 


One cannot look upon the black race 
without a keen sense of admiration over 


July, 1928 


Downingtown Industrial 
and Agricultural School 


DOWNINGTOWN, PA. 
(Under the Supervision of the Pennsyl- 


vania Department of Public Instruction.) 


SPECIALIZES 
in training good workers and good citizens and 
offers to boys and girls over thirteen years of age 


pealiny Climate Outside of City 
Faculty ef “Gealer High are 
unieor and Sen High Sch Courses 
reperly Supervised Athietie and Social 
Recreation 
For further information write 
J. H. N. WARING, JR. Principal 





The Lincoln School 


for Nurses 
in the City of New York 


offers to young colored women having 
completed a four year high school and 
holding a diploma, a three years’ course 
of instruction in nursing. 

Capacity of hospital—420 beds. 


For information apply to: 


Superintendent of Nurses 
MISS S. J. FORD 


Lincoln School for Nurses 
New York, N. Y. 









yap.| Covorep Dots 
a AND NOVELTIES 














19 inches, $5.50 each, $42. dez. 


AGENTS WANTED 


BETHEL MFG. CO. 


Dept. C. 97 South St. JAMAICA, N. Y. 











ST. AUGUSTINE'S COLLEGE 


Raleigh, North Carolina 
Founded 1867 
Conducted _under the auspices of the 
Episcopal Church. 

A four-year College Course is now being 
offered, including Pre-Medical and Teacher 
Training features. 

A lege Preparatory Department, Train- 
ing School for Nurses, and School for Re- 
ligious and Social workers are connected 
with the College. é 

Thorough training, healthy environment, 
Christian influences. 

For Catalog and information write 
The Registrar 
St. Augustine’s College 


Raleigh, N. C . 


Judson Douglas Wetmore 


Attorney at Law 


1440 Broadway 
New York 
(Telephone Lackawanna 5494-5) 


Member of all courts of New 
York State and of the Supreme 
Court of the United States, will 
lend money on Ist, 2nd and 8rd 
mortgages. Real estate of all 
a bought, exchanged and 
sold. 


1882 1927 
LLANE COLLEGE 


Jackson, Tennessee 


A GROWING College with a 
tory and a bright future. It 
= homer 9 7 
lege eparatory, g, 
Home Economics and Pre-Medical subjects. 
Proper standards of conduct as well as 
scholarship are maintained. Well equipped 
laboratories, dormitories with modern conveni- 
ences and facilities under ive Christian 
uences are supported. - 
mation address 


J. F. LANE, President, Jackson, Tennessee. 





Teachers College 


Teachers Cellege Conservatery of Musie 
Schoel Business 


igh Scheel of 
Junier High Scheel Scheel ef Home Economies 
Training School 


Accredited Schoel for Teachers 
we Campus 


Orchestra 
Department of Educatien 


intra-mural and inter-collegiate athietics 
Terms Reasonable 
For catalog or further information address 


J. Beverty F. SHaw, President 
MERIDIAN, MISSISSIPPI 





THE CHEYNEY TRAINING 
SCHOOL FOR TEACHERS 
(A STATE NORMAL SCHOOL) 

CHEYNEY, PA. 


A PENNSYLVANIA State Normal School 
offering, in addition to the regular Normal 
Academic Course of two years, professional 


three Fe courses in Home Economics and 
Shop rk. 


A diploma from any of these courses makes a 
graduate eligible to teach in the public schools 
of Pennsylvania. 

Fer further information and catalog, write 


LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal 
CHEYNEY, PA. 










We teach 


shorthand that one can $ 

by ‘Touch’ rapidly and accurately; business law is ; 
unique. A HIGH STANDARD OF EFFICIENCY 
ucational qualification and willingness to work 


the 
finished in a few months. Fall term begins October 1, 1928 


EMPLOYMENT SERVICE: Free t 
EDW. 


17TH ST. 





The Stenographers’ Institute fer Duncan’s Business School 


STENOGRAPHERS EFFICIENTLY TRAINED 
read and transcribe; students 


anybedy—Clerical, 
T. DUNCAN, Principal 


taught to manipulate typewriting machines 
Ss? end our bookkeeping and filing system is 


incessantly, the course may be 


Domestic and otherwise. 
PHILA., PA. 


249 


Ae eee RRNA APA IT ET aeenrnenienien 






a 


ans 


Beis apices _ 
cena omelet al neice scare! Ltn CONC LC e RL TO TIRI TETT 


















WHERE TO STOP 


THE CRISIS Directory of De- 
pendable and Clean Hotels. No 
hotel will be listed here which 
is not recommended by our 
friends. If complaints are re- 
ceived, the hotel will be denied 
further advertising space. 


COLUMBUS, OHIO 
The Plaza Hotel 


Modern conveniences, superior service and reasonable 
rates. We cater to the traveling public. 


Telephone, Adams 9378 
LONG STREET AT HAMILTON AVENUE 


YOUNG MEN! 


When in Chicago stay at the Y. M. C. A. Com- 
fortable rooms, cafeteria, gymnasium, natato- 
rium. Employment Bureau for members. 


For further information address 


Te M. cS A. 


3763 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 


Visit - 


THE Y.W.C. A. 


2460 Welton Street 
Denver, Colorado 


Rooms Registry for Denver 
and Colorado Springs 


Residence 


Beautiful Camp Nizhoni in the Heart 
of the Rocky Mountains 


IN THE BERKSHIRE HILLS 
Great Barrington, Massachusetts 
NOW OPEN 
Where sunshine, mountain air and health abound. 
Come and spend your vacation with us, it will do 
you good. Home cooking a specialty. 


sonable. 
BOOKLET ON REQUEST 
EDGAR F. M. WILLOUGHBY, Proprietor 


Rates rea- 


BOSTON, MASS. 
ANCRUM SCHOOL DORMITORIES 


72-74 West Rutland Square 


Ideal accommodations for Travelers, 
Teachers, Students and Summer Vis- 
itors. Every convenience. Weekly 
rates reasonable.—Transients $1.50 per 


day. 
CAFETERIA 


THE CRISIS 
proposes to feature and expand 
this column. Will our friends 
write us of their experience and 
recommend hotels in all leading 


the wonders they have accomplished. 

A trifle over a half century ago they 
were slaves, with undeveloped minds, 
and for many years thereafter they con- 
tinued to live in great ignorance and su- 
perstition. 


Today we have members of the col- 
ored race who are high in every walk of 
life; men who have come from an ob- 
scure beginning and have amassed great 
wealth; men who are leaders in every 
line of business; men who are great edu- 
cators and are looked up to and re- 
spected by not only their own race, but 
by members of the white race. 


However much we may admire the 
great progress of the black man, it is a 
fact, nevertheless, that the two races do 
not blend. This fact is recognized by the 
leaders of the black race themselves. 
Those leaders, highly educated men, are 
not backward in admitting this fact and 
likewise admitting that they are working 
among their’own race with no desire to 
mingle with the whites, but merely to 
help their own people to a greater de- 
gree of success and to attain higher 
standards of living. 


It was our pleasure to attend, very re- 
cently, the graduating exercises of one 
of our great public educational institu- 
tions. Most of the graduates were young 
white women. There were some white 
men and some colored men and women. 

It was with quite a shock that we ob- 
served in the long line of graduates who 
filed in, two by two, colored girls walk- 
ing with white girls. And we nearly 
fell out of our chair when we observed a 
great big black, burly Negro promenad- 
ing along with a sweet looking little 
white girl for a partner. 

Turning now to the South we find 
Eugene Talmadge, Commissioner of 
Agriculture, of the State of Georgia, 
taking a trip to New Orleans. On the 
front page of the Market Bulletin he 
comments on his experiences. 


While in the city I visited three of the 
large hotels, the Montelon, the St. 
Charles and the Roosevelt. These 
hotels will compare favorably with the 
best in Atlanta. I noticed in each of 
these hotels, that all of their help was 
white people. White girls running the 
elevators, white waitresses in the cafes, 
white bellboys and porters, white door- 
men and white transportation clerks. 

There is a large army of ambitious 
young white girls and young white boys 
in every city in Georgia, that want and 
need employment. I would be glad to 
see some of our hotels take the lead in 
Georgia and have all white help in these 
positions. Our girls and boys need the 
work and it will improve the morale of 
your hotels. It may seem that I am 
diverging a little from the topic that I 
should discuss, in referring to this, but 
it has been acutely drawn to my atten- 
tion in the last two and a half months 
that there are thousands of our white 
girls and boys that are deserving and 
wanting work and cannot find it, right 
in the city of Atlanta. 


Usually hotel 
South are colored. 


employees in the 


THE NEW COLORED HOTEL 


23 NEATLY FURNISHED ROOMS 


Hotel Bledsoe 


HOT AND COLD WATER BATHS 


Service NIGHT AND Day 
EVERYTHING SANITARY 


1618 ANDREW ST. 
HOUSTON, TEXAS 


Preston 9074 -PHONES- Hap ey 5677-J 
H. C. Serts, Prop. Sam HENINGTON, Mea, 


It is the Duty of 
Human Beings 


to be attractive 


The EAST INDIA HAIR 
GROWER will help you by increas- 
ing the strength and natural health 
and beauty of your hair. 


IF your Hair is Dry and Wiry or if 
you are bothered with Falling Hair, 
Dandruff, Itching Scalp or any Hair 
Trouble, we want you to try a jar of 
EAST INDIA HAIR GROWER. 
The remedy contains medical properties 
that go to the roots of the Hair, stimu- 
late the skin, helping nature do its work. 
Leaves the hair soft and silky. Per- 
fumed with a balm of a thousand flow- 
ers. The best known remedy for Heavy 
and Beautiful Black Eye-Brows. Also 
restores Gray Hair to its Natural Color. 
Can be used with Hot Iron. 


PRICE SENT BY MAIL, Sc. 
1éc Extra for Postage 


poo. 1 Pressing Otl, 1 
Direction for Selling, $2.00. 
for Postage 


S. D. LYONS 


316 N. Central, Dept. B. 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. 


AGENTS OUTFIT 
1 Hair Grower, 1 Temple Oil, 1 Sham- 
Face Cream and 


n 
or Commercial Photographer. You can learn 
‘@ home or in our New York Studios, Spare or full time. 


N.Y. Institute of Photography, 10 W. 33rd St., N.Y. 
Tue Crisis 





reas- 
ealth 


NCLE Mose Mason, the singing elder from the Delta Land — now an exclusive 
Paramount artist—will inspire and uplift you with this harmonious and solemn 
sacred masterpiece, “Judgment Day in the Morning.” You can’t help but feel better 
for hearing a record like this Paramount No. 12601. Ask for it at your dealer’s, or send 
us the coupon. 


7 


12601—Judgment Day in the Morning and 
Red Cross The Disciple of Christ, 


sermons with singing by Moses Mason. 


Other Inspiring Paramount Numbers 
12618—-Old Time Baptism, Part 1, and Old Time 12621—I hope I May Join That Band and Wade In 


> 


Baptism, Part 2; Sermons by Rev. R. M. the Water and Be Baptised, Lincoln Four 
Massey. Quartette; Prof. C. H. Pace, Director. 


12611—Goin’ to Rest Where Jesus Is and ‘Been Listening All the Day, Instru- 
mental Trio; Acc. by Blind Joe Taggart. 

12589—I Have Anchored My Soul and King Jesus, Stand By Me, Norfolk Jubilee 
Quartette. 

ae Shall I Be and He Arose from the Dead, Deacon L. J. Bates; 
Guitar Acc. 

12035—Father, Prepare Me and My Lord’s Gonna Move This Wicked Race, Nor- 
folk Jubilee Quartette. 

12217—Ezekiel Saw De Wheel and Crying Holy Unto the Lord, Norfolk 4 
Jubilee Quartette. 

12234—Where Shall I Be and I’m Gonna Build Right on Dat Shore, 
Norfolk Jubilee Quartette. 

12416—After a While and Baptize Me, Sermons by Rev. J. M. Gates. 

12630—-His Eye Is on the Sparrow and I Wouldn’t Mind Dying If 


Dying Was All, Norfolk Jubilee Quartette. Recerdme 


SEND NO MONEY! Ii your dealer is out of the records you want. send us the A Laboratories 
oupon below. Pay postman 75 cents for each record, plus small C. O. D. fee PA 142 Paramount Bidg. 
when he delivers records. We pay postage on shipments of two or more i —- Washington, Wis. 


h 
am : 
Pat records. nd me the records 
checked (\V) below. 
15 cents each. 


REC.U.S, PAT. OF F 


Jhe‘Popular Race Record 





LEARN “ 
BEAUTY CULTURE 


Se ee Rar ema SEL INNES 


Larger Earnings—Better Security. 


This chart was compiled from informa- 
tion furnished by U. S. Government 


Consider the figures given in the above chart and the 
Census repozts of 1924. 


fact that many Mme. C. J. Walker Agents earn an aver- 
age of $50.00 weekly. For the time and money spent in 
preparation, positively, no profession brings better financial returns than Beauty Cul- 
ture. Only a few short weeks are necessary to obtain thorough instruction in all the arts 
of Beauty Culture and a Madam C. J. Walker Diploma. With it your earnings can be 
what. you desire — ten or a hundred dollars weekly. Not only this, but Beauty Culture 
offers better security against financial reverses, be- 
cause of losing your job, failure, sickness of death of 
your provider. Once trained, you are thenceforth MME. C. J. WALKER SCHOOLS 
prepared for any such emergency. OF BEAUTY CULTURE 
With competent, patient, instruc- 
tors; each modern, complete in 
THE every detail, approved by the state 
laws are located in the following 
cities for your convenience. Con- 
MME ( J WALKER SYSTEM sult one of them or write to us 
e ~ . direct. 
PhiJadelphia, Pa, 
OF BE UTY R 1722 South St. 
St. Louis, Mo. 
. . 3900 W. Belle Place 
For nearly twenty-five years our sole activity has Fm S adn 
# : z ; ; yhicago, ° 
been perfecting an already superior system of treat- 110 E. 47th St. 
ing the scalp and skin, making and marketing pre- Kansas City, Mo. 
parations with which to do it and teaching this 1834 Paseo Sc, 
ethod romen secking a chance to succeed in sae Baars, Cal 
method to women seeking a chance to succeec 1553. canteen kaw, 
life. Thousands of women almost everywhere buy- Clevelaad. 4. 
ing homes, rearing families, educating children, 2268 E. 55th St. 
having money of their own, enjoying financial in- cae eee 
< ¢ . J otreect 
dependence, vouchsafe how much _ we’ve» helped 2580 Seventh Ave. 
them. We can do as much or more for.you. 


LIBERAL TERMS 


Write to-day for our literature, Schedule of tuition fees, etc.; arrange 
now, to make this summer profitable; enroll in one of our thorough, 
complete, approved schools. Beatty Culture is the trade of no regrets. 


THE MADAM C. J. WALKER MFG. CO. INC. 


WALKER BLDG. INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 





g 






isha 





