JORD ROW 


RAMSAY MACDONALD 15 CENTS THE COPY 


‘THE 


i 


Rey. U. 8. Pat. Off. 


A Record of The Darker Races 





tam «= Landmark 
ao Redeemed 


Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc. 
N. W. Cor. 3rd & Clay Sts. 
Richmond, Va. 


SOUTHERN AID SOCIETY OF VA., INC. an- 
nounces the purchase of the valuable properties formerly 
owned by the Mechanics Savings Bank located at the 


northwest corner of Third and Clay Streets, Richmond, 
Virginia. 


After extensive improvements these buildings, namely 
212 and 214 E. Clay Street, and 506 and 508 N. Third 
Street, will be occupied by the Southern Aid Society of 
Va., Inc., The Commercial Bank and Trust Company and 
other leading professional and business groups of Rich- 
mond. Thus these properties and this section will again 
become the center of Negro commercial and professional 
activities in the Capital of the Old Dominion. 








Southern Aid Society of Virginia, Inc. 


Insures against Disability and Death 


Home Office: 525-7-9 N. 2nd Street, Richmond, Va. 


Operating in Virginia, District of Columbia and New Jersey 

















‘““WHERE THERE IS NO VISION— 
THE PEOPLE PERISH” 


We have, in attractive pamphlet form, the statements of twelve nationally known 
Americans, in regard to Thrift and Life Insurance. For instance, Dr. DuBois, Editor 
of the Crisis, says, in regard to Life Insurance: 


“In modern civilized life there are certain things which every man does. He is born; 
he is educated; he goes to work; he takes out life insurance; he is sick; he dies. Few of these 
things can be avoided, certainly not the first and the last. The degree of a man’s 
civilization is measured by the care which he takes of the other items. To be sure, uneducated 
men have succeeded; some men do not work, and perhaps a few serious men do not carry life 
insurance. But none of these omissions are to be recommended. All of them are essential to 
life. Sickness may be avoided to some extent; death never. Insurance is a method of making 
these the least possible burden upon the man himself, his friends, and his family.” 


There are included other equally informative statements from the following: 


John W. Davis, President, 
West Va. Collegiate Institute 
M. W. Dogan, President, 
Wiley University ~ 

D. C. Fowler, Dean, 
Texas College 

John M. Gandy, President, 
Virginia N. & I. Inst. 
John Hope, President, 
Morehouse College 

R. R. Moton, Principal, 
Tuskegee Institute 


Carl Murphy, Editor, 
Baltimore Afro-American 


J. B. Simpson, Professor of Greek, 
Virginia Union University 


F. A. Sumner, President, 
Talladega College 


R. S. Wilkinson, President, 
S. C. State College 


P. B. Young, Editor, 
Norfolk Journal and Guide 


On the last page is a diagram “The Dollar Value of An Education”, from a study by Dean Lord of Boston 
University. 

The statements of these gentlemen, with their photographs, will prove interesting to you and your family, and 
furnish something to think about for a while. A copy may be had from any representative of the company or 


by forwarding the attached coupon to the Home Office. High School and College Instructors will be sent 
additional copies for distribution to their students. 


Victory Life 
Insurance Company 


Home Office: 3621 South State St. 
Chicago, IIl. 


“POR THE CROWNING ACHIEVEMENT OP 
SECURING THE ADMISSION OF THE 
Victory Life Insurance Company~ 
AS THE FIRST NEGRO ORGANIZATION 
PERMITTED TO DO INSURANCE BUSINESS 
UNDER THE RIGID REQUIREMENTS OP THB 
STATE OF NEW YORK" 


$200,000.00 Capital and the Only Negro Company Operating Under the 
Supervision of the New York Insurance Department.” 








Victory Life Insurance Company 
3621 South State Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
Gentlemen:—Send me copy of your pamphlet: “Where There is No Vision, etc.” 
My name 
Street Address 


City or Town 


My Occupation 





November, 1929 








MORE DENTISTS NEEDED 


Prepare now for Service and Great Financial Rewards 
DENTAL DEPARTMENT OF MEHARRY MEDICAL COLLEGE 
IS READY 
To Train You. Write for Information to 
MEHARRY MEDICAL COLLEGE NASHVILLE, TENN. 








| ZWAMPTON INSTITUTE 
Hampton, Va. 


Offering courses leading to degree of Bachelor of 
Science in each of eight schools, and graduate courses 
in the summer school leading to the Master’s degree. 


THE SCHOOL OF AGRICULTURE—Aims to develop teachers of agriculture, farm 
demonstration agents, and qualified rural leaders. 

THE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS—Aims to fit young men and young women for business 
and teaching positions along a variety of specialized lines. 

THE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION—Aims to train teachers for high schools, for inter- 
mediate and grammar grades, and for primary grades. 

THE SCHOOL OF HOME ECONOMICS—Aims to train teachers of Home Economics for 
high schools and to train efficient home-makers, 

THE LIBRARY SCHOOL—Aims to prepare for librarianships in schools, colleges, and 
branch city libraries. 

THE SCHOOL OF MUSIC—Aims to meet the growing need for well-trained musicians, 
to serve as teachers and to co-operate in the advancement of music in church, school 
and community. 

THE SUMMER SCHOOL—Two terms of thirty school days each, for teachers exclusively. 
Graduate work for those qualified. 

BUILDING CONSTRUCTION—Aims to train skilled builders by instruction in building 
methods, field management, building materials, trade practice, structural design, and 
principles of architecture. 

THE ACADEMY—A standard four-year accredited high school preparing for college 


George P. Phenix, Acting Principal Hampton Institute, Va. 


The TUSKEGEE NORMAL and 
— INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE ~~ 


Founded by Booker T. WASHINGTON 


Offers Exceptional Opportunities to Negro Youth for Thorough Education in 
High School and College Courses and in Agriculture, Mechanical Industries and 
in Industries for Women. 


THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANI- é Teachers in Elementary Schools, for 
CAL INDUSTRIES for Boys comprises Teachers of Mechanical Industries; in 
forty trades including Carpentry, Brick- Business Practice; in Home Economics; 
laying, Auto-Mechanics, Applied Electric- and in Technical Arts. 


ity, Photography, Printing, Machine Shop 
Practice and Tailoring. FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES 
leading to the Bachelor of Science degree 
THE WOMAN’S INDUSTRIES include are offered in Agriculture, in Home Eco 


Home Economics—Courses in Foods nomics, and in Education. 


Clothing, Millinery, Applied Art, Launder- 
ing, Household Management in addition to THE JOHN A. ANDREW MEMO- 
Home Crafts and Ladies’ Tailoring. RIAL HOSPITAL and Nurse Training 


School provides a three-year course in 
THE AGRICULTURAL DEPART- Nurse Training which qualifes its gradu- 
MENT with 1850 acres of land offers a 


FISK + 


UNIVERSITY 
NASHVILLE 





THE COLLEGE 
Accredited four year liberal arts 
college, with 11 major depart- 
ments. 


THE MUSIC SCHOOL 
College major leading to B.A. 
degree, and full music curricu- 
lum leading to Mus.B. degree. 


GRADUATE DEPARTMENT 
Graduate work in chemistry and 
the Social Sciences. 


Opening Date September Sixteenth for 
Freshmen and September Eighteenth 


for Others. 
MA, 


For PartTicuLars, ADDRESS THE DEAN 


FISK UNIVERSITY 
Nashville, Tenn. 





Sell THE CRISIS in your community or recom- 
mend persons who have energy and the ability to 
represent us acceptably. 


THE CRISIS, 
69 Fifth Avenue New York City 


MORGAN (COLLEGE 


John O. Spencer, Ph.D., LL.D., Presiden 
John W. Haywood, A.M., 8.T.D., Dees 
LOCATION:—College town be- 
tween North and South. 
COURSES—Semester credit in 
tem. B.A., B.S., and B. Ed. dt- 
grees. Advanced courses in Edu- 
cation. Certificates for high 
school teaching. 
RATING:—Accredited by the Asso- 
ciation of Colleges and Secon- 
dary Schools for the Middle States 
and Maryland,—by the State 
Board of Education of Maryiand, 
—by boards of education in other 
states,—by the University Sen- 
ate of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church. 
POLICY:—Co-educational. 
FACULTY: — University trained 











comprehensive four-year course in Second- 
ary Agriculture and a full four-year col- 
lege course in Advanced Agriculture to 
train young men and women as Farm 
Demonstration and Home Demonstration 
Agents, Teachers of Agriculture and as 
Scientific Farmers. 


ates for registration in all southern states. 


A SUMMER SCHOOL FOR TEACH- 
ERS, of ten weeks, divided into two terms, 
beginning June Ist and meeting the re- 
quirements of the Boards of Education of 
all southern states. 


specialists. 


SITE:—Eighty-five acres, beautiful 


scenery, athletic fields. 


DORMITORIES: — Equipped and 


supervised. 


SUMMER SCHOOL:—July 1-Au- 













































ee For particulars write the 
THE TRADE SCHOOL—Four year course on the high school level in each of twelve Di f ‘ 
sahliane irector of Agencies 








TWO-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES ane vee Baked 
. sLEGE } KS are am 
offered in Education for the training of Information furnished upon application ~——— OPEN: Sept. 28, 


REGISTRATION:—F res h- 
man Week, Sept. 28rd-27th. Up 
per Classes, Sept. 26th, 27th. 


INFORMATION:—Address Edward N. Wil- 
= » Morgan Baltimers, 


Robert R. Moton, Principal 
‘TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALABAMA 


William H. Carter, Treasurer 








THE Crisis 






SIS 





THE -CRESIS 


REG. U. S. PAT. OFF. 


A Record of the Darker Races 





—— 
W. E. Burenarptr Du Bats, Editor 


Volume 36, No. 11 Contents for November, 1929 


Whole No. 229 


COVER. Photograph of Helen Bryant. By Cloud. 


AS THE CROW FLIES 


FRONTISPIECE. Drawing. By James LeSesne Wells 
THE NEGRO IN LAW. By William T. Andrews. Illustrated 


AUNT SARAH. By Elizabeth Kaele. 


Illustrated 


COLORED BAPTIST MISSIONS. By Dr. J. E. East. Illustrated... 372 
COUNTEE CULLEN ON MISCEGNATION 
BUSINESS AS PUBLIC SERVICE. By W. E. Burghardt Du Bois. 


Illustrated. 
THE NEGRO IN LITERATURE 


374 
376 


THE POET’S CORNER. Poems by Jessie Fauset, Alice Dunbar 
Nelson, Marjorie Marshall, John F. Matheus, Katherine Braithwaite, 


Antonio Jarvis 


THEN. A. A. C. P. BATTLE FRONT 
ALONG THE COLOR LINE. Illustrated 


YOUTHPORT. Illustrated 


POSTSCRIPT. By W. E. B. Du Bois 


With a word from the Rt. Hon. J. Ramsay Macdonald, Premier of 


Great Britain. 





HE plight of the Battleship build- 

ers is most distressing. Here is 
naughty mans Shearer who over their 
solemn protest and without their 
knowledge and on their payroll did all 
he could to keep civilization from scrap- 
ping battleships at $25,000,000 a piece. 
Who is safe from Calumny?—The 
Associated Press and other News Agen- 
cies quite forgot to report the Sixth 
Congress of the Women’s Internation- 
al League for Peace and Freedom at 
Prague with Jane Addams in the chair. 
—The Heimwehr of Austria is about 
to convince the socialists of the error 
of their ways by clubs and powder. 
The Heimwehr represents the aristoc- 
racy and ignorance of Austria.—Mr. 
Fall, once Secretary of the Interior, is 
about to be acquitted of bribery and 
stealing at his trial which began Octo- 
ber seventh.—Yoruba, West Africa, 
has less than a million Negroes. Yet 
the Catholic Church, after a few years’ 
work, has already ordained three black 
priests while 12 million American Ne- 
groes have vielded only 7 priests in 2 
centuries—The Dixie Memorial of 
Atlanta is still in court after fleecing 
the United States out of several hun- 
dred thousand half dollars. They are 


As the Crow Flies 


———7—————————————————— 


cutting a monument on a mountain to 
the glorious memory of those eminent 
heroes who died to perpetuate human 
slavery—In a quarter century our 
trade with South America has grown 
from three hundred million to two 
thousand million dollars a year. This 
is the reason for our discovery that 
South America is civilized.—‘‘Iraq,” 
says Britain, “go, be free and sin no 
more. Besides you cost too damned 
much!”—Russia sold last year 90 mil- 
lion dollars more than she bought 
which is impossible because every capi- 
talistic country in the world said it 
could not be done.—Hats up and off to 
General Pulaski, the Pole, who 150 
years ago fought with black Haiti to 
save white Savannah and died. All of 
which the press has mentioned, except 
Haiti—President Hoover and _ his 
guest, Mr. Ramsey MacDonald had 
dinner with the leading Negro laborers 
and farmers of Maryland at the White 
House yesterday in order to learn from 
their own mouths why the colored folk 
of the world seem so restless. (This bit 


Tuomas J. Cattoway, Business Manager 





A ee, 


We have for our Christmas 
Crisis a cover by Laura Wheeler, 
a beautiful story—‘‘White Li- 
lacs’—by Edith L. Young, a 
symposium on Race Intermar- 
riage, and so many other excel- 
lent matters that we will not 
whet your appetite further. Do 
not miss the December Crisis. 


| cae mameermemmmmmragy” 


of news is not to be released to the 
press until 2029 A. D.)—God seems 
to have it in for Florida and if you ask 
us we don’t blame Him a bit.—It costs 
five and a half million dollars a year to 
run the League of Nations and fifteen 
hundred million to support the world’s 
navies. Hurrah for Shearer!—Said 
Mayor Boess of Berlin to Mayor 
Walker of New York: “When does the 
Prohibition Law go into effect ?”— 
We're going to cut $200,000,000 off 
the rich men’s taxes next year so that 
they can make more money.—And still 
the merry little game of “Button! 
Button! Who’s got the Button?” 
goes on in the Senate tariff de- 
bate, when we all know who’s got the 
Button and who always had it and 
who’s going to keep it. And any Re- 
publican or Democratic senator will 
prove our assertion.—North Carolina 
is forging forward and only seems back- 
ward in industry, murder and mob- 
law because the rest of the South is too. 
utterly dead even to begin the emanci- 
pation of labor.—Of all modern trait- 
ors to the cause of sweating humanity 
commend us to Matthew Wall. He is 
a white labor leader who has sold out 
body and soul to the Rich. 





The Crisis is published monthly and copyrighted by the National As- 
sociation for the Advancement of Colored People at 69 Fifth Avenue, 
New York, N. Y. 15 cents a copy, $1.50 a year. Foreign subscriptions $1.75, 
The date of expiration of each subscription is printed on the wrapper. 
When the subscription is due a blue renewal blank is enclosed. The address 
of a subscriber may be changed as often as desired, but both the old and 


November. 1920 


new address must be given and two weeks’ notice is necessary. Manu- 
scripts and drawings relating to colored people are desired. They must 
be accompanied by return postage and while THe Crisis uses every care it 
assumes no responsibility for their safety in transit. Entered as second 
class matter November 2, 1910, at the post office at New York, N. Y. 
under. the act of March 8, 1879. 


, 


365 












The COLLEGE of Liberal Arts and Sciences — THE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY 


standard and practical three year course in preparation for 
the Mifflistry with emphasis upon the problems of the modern pulpit and pastorate. 


New courses will be given in 1929-30 in 
PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION. 
VoIcE CULTURE AND EXPRESSION. 


Use OF THE BIBLE IN PREACHING. 


The degree of Master of Arts may be gained by advanced students during their theological courses. 
FOR INFORMATION ADDRESS THE PRESIDENT 


LINCOLN UNIVERSITY 


The Seminary offers a 


RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. 


PsYCHOLOGY OF RELIGION. 





BEREAN SCHOGL 
Co-Educational Non-Sectarian 


TRADE SCHOOL, evening sessions only. 


DOMESTIC ART SCHOOL, day and even- 
img sessions. 


COMMERCIAL SCHOOL, day and evening 
sessions. 


MUSIC SCHOOL, day and evening sessions. 


COMMERCIAL TEACHER TRAINING 
(New), Enroll Now. 


Students over 14 years admitted 
Se. College Avenue and North 19th Street 
PHILADELPHIA, PA. 


Matthew Anderson, Founder 


Reeent Gains ‘in 
JOHNSON, see WELDON 
American N 


SE aaErennrnn EEE enaereeeneeiseeeeeaei 
FINCOLN UNIVERSITY 


TWO DEPARTMENTS: 


BRICK JUNIOR COLLEGE 


Under Auspices American Missionary Ass'n, 
287 Fourth Ave., New York, N. Y. 


JOHN C. WRIGHT, President 


Institution accredited by the State 
North Carolina 


Christian but not denominational. Fine tradi- 
tions. Superior board and living conditions. 
Limited opportunities for self-help. One of the 
most beautiful campuses in the South Lowest 
fees for highest grade of educational service. 


For full particulars write 
The Registrar 
BRICKS, N. C. 


BOOKS BY COLORED AUTHORS AND BOOKS ABOUT COLORED PEOPLE 


MILL, LESLIE PINCKNEY 
L’ Ouverture 


eccccceccccccccces 1.50 
nuGhes, LANGSTON 
-i ae to the Jew .....cceceeeeeee 2.00 
Weary Blues ....-..ccecceccecceces 2.00 
sesave, | EVA i 
10) ON. CHARLES 8., VILLARD, OSWALD 
RRISON and Others— 


Americas Civilisation... 3.08 





a GMmiILY @. 
samen Hiaith eae. seseereeseseeesenees 2.00 
BRAITHWAITE, wv. 
. Anthelesy ef i =—_ Verse fer 1938.. 4.08 
ALLIE 
enewn, HALL Hasees evcccvesccosecccccocsces 8.68 
BULLOCK, RALPH W. 
ecee me estte Of Handieaps.......-.0-s-seeee 2.0 
GULLEN, COUNTEE 
eves Caroling Dusk .....cccccccccseceeceetes 
coe CORE wn ccccccccccccccccccccccccccseseses 2.08 
cece Copper BUM .occsccscccccccccesceccssees 
BABNEY, W. P. 
Mme. cece Oclerel Citianns.........00: 3.08 
our. i < ecccseccceccece 2.06 
oe a Gengs of the Negre...... bee 
SU BOIS, W. E. B. 
coos Dark Primeemd .....cccccccceccccceccses 2108 
-.+. Darkwater eves 228 
pecccccccccccces 208 
FAUSET, ARTHUR . 
se i. 
rAUSET, Jt seeere R. 
eoccceenescecooccose 2.08 
ia Bun EE Lae CU Se bisenebaseeses ren 2.50 
FishER, aveoirn 
alle ef Jerigho .......-.0.--eeseee 2.68 
FISHER, WILLIAM _- 250 
rikwine, WALTER Co eet ne 
Savings Bank .......... 2.00 
peiioon. et ‘aaanome A... 
Eminent Afrieans ......-..-.+.. 1.28 
eatin, Tuzasern LAY 
- Whe Negre American 12 
MERSKOVITS, MELVILLE J. 
BEGBBO  ccccccccccccccccces 2.00 
waVWARD, DU BOSE 
o POPE... cnecccccccccccccecscccce 2.58 
Mamba’s Daughters .................005 2.60 


THE CRISIS, 


THE CRISIS and one year 
THE CRISIS and $4 worth of books as listed above for 


BOUT cccvcccccccecsces 75 
: of an Ex-Coleured Mas.. YJ 
. The ‘ond of Ameriean Negre Spirituals.. 3.58 
+++. The Second Book ef American Nesre 
en Remaceeseccenensosvccoecoosces 3.50 
KING, 
egro American Life............0++: -75 
LARSEN, NELLA 
ove  ~— — OPeercccecccceseesccceccocees 2.50 
5.08 
Plays of WORD TAD cccsccccccccesececs 5.00 
meKAY. CLAUDE 
: oe PD ca uasinadbdavseonecsnnen 2 
exates” WitLiA FORD 
Se (EEE. sstocnbsoneedsceveenscees 2.00 
METFESSEL, MILTON 
in Felk Musie ....... 8.08 
wiitin. SARAH GE — 
+ The Coming of the Lerd ............0.- 2.50 
- God's Stepchildren Ccccecvecesccocccece 2.00 
The South Africans .....cccccscossccece 3.50 
wivone Neere Thinks 
> ME, ca nsccbecieseensesene 2.50 
opus, HOWARD W., and JOHNSON, GUY 
cece fad he Negro, and His —_ ocnceccccoceese ae 
Work a Day Den weseneceenseess 
oviviem t —, 
of African Misery .........+00: 2.08 
oviweton. & many WHITE 
nS 2.00 
PETERKIN. i 
SeebNeedSeASORDERESEOOSOs es 2.50 


THE ‘CRISIS MAGAZINE, 69 Fifth Avenue, New York City. 
Euclosed please find my check or money order for $......im payment for items checked. 


Send to 


Address 
SoC SERE aS ae State 














PENNSYLVANIA 


1870 1929 


Clark University 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 
“Culture for Service” 


OVER 100 acres of beautiful campus. Twelve build- 
ings with new $215,000.00 Administration Build- 
ing with modern Chapel, Laboratories and Gymnasium. 


Clark University offers unusual educational oppor- 
tunities to aspiring young men and women. Terms 
reasonable. Departments: College of Arts and Sci- 
ence, Normal Training School, College Preparatory, 
Music and Home Economics. 


For information address 
M. S. DAVAGE, President 





cervcce _- neste ccccccceccocccsccecces Be 
Anes kbness gab uees Sas 260 
Pickens. WILLIAM 
The American AcOep ........-.seececees 2.00 
PUCKETT. NEWBELL NILES 
Beliefs ef the Negre...... 6.08 
i... gt 8. 
The American Race Preblem............- 2.78 
SELIGMANN, HERBERT 
The Negro Faces Ameries .............- 1. 
SEIGFRIED, “ANORE 
America Comes @f Ag® .......sceeeeceee oe 
SHREINER, OLIVE 
From Man to Man ..........scesesseees 2a 
SMITH, REED 
South Carolina Ballads ..........-.sse0. 8.06 
STEINER and BROWN 
The North Caroline Chain Gang........ 20 
STRIBLING, T. 8. 
. Birthright ..... es0nnveneessoocescesecce 2.0 
5 SD Revesncvcscuncesosesesecncnce 258 
TAYLOR, A. A. 
. The Negro im the Reeenstruction of Vir- 
eae senesosccsoesecooesccseseoenes 208 
TOOMER, Jame 
aROn page sevesonsesesacoancesncens re 
VANDERCOOK: 1. W. 
ccecrcccescoccocccooesese 1a 
WALROND, ERIC 
. Tropie ~_— d6S4ebOsescondscseqnedesons ae 
WESLEY, c. 
Negro bow im the United States....... ue 
WHITE, NEWMAN 1. 
ponees Anthology of American Negro Verse... 2.00 
wong WALTER 
age ee eee 
oe ed — OB the FEE 2... cccccccccccces 2.58 
eeccccercccccccncoessces 3.00 


d_ Faggot 
wodpaon, CARTER a. 
History 


of the Negre 
: inea of the Negro 1800-60 
— 7 > im Our 





a a One Y j 
membership in N. A. A. C. P. mo Year $1.50 


Negre Their Oratiens 
WORK, | menees 
icorcaty @f the Negre in Afries 
ic the SesRCeRVSEOAEKS SReneeerne (2.06 
ee eR ee PP eo ee $2.50 
kein lice ei on lenin Belk ole ete Se kaa oe $5.00 









THE Crisis 















HE ATLANTA 
SCHOOL of 
% SOCIAL WORK 


Good Paying Jobs for 
TRAINED NEGROES 
in Social Work 


—_—-— - _ -~——— 


The Atlanta School 
of Social Work 
Gives training in every branch of techni- 
cal Social Work and in addition offers 
special preparation for the special prob- 
lems which confront social workers in 
Negro Communities. 
— os ~ > ————_—_——— 
For Further Information Address the 
Director 
Forrester B. Washington, A.M. 
239 Auburn Avenue Northeast 
Atlanta, Georgia 


Join the 
N. A. A, C. P. 
To-day 








Florida Normal and 


Collegiate Institute 


ST. AUGUSTINE, FLORIDA 
(The Ancient City of Sunshine Lend) 





Junior HicH 
Senior Hicu 
TEACHER TRAINING 
Junior CoLtece Courses 
Pre-MeEpIcAL AND VOCATIONAL CouRnsEs 





For further infermation address 
NATHAN W. COLLIER, Pres. 








The Cardinal 


Gibbons Institute 


RIDGE, ST. MARY’S COUNTY, 
MARYLAND 


A school for Negro pome men and we 
men of character and purpose. Course si 
Junior High School grade offered fer the 
coming year. 

General Mechanics, feptndes and Be 
mestic Science are taught im parallel eourses. 

Living conditions simple, healthful, well- 
supervised. 


For further information, address 


Victor H. Daniel, Principal, 
Ridge, Maryland 








MORRISTOWN NORMAL AND INDUSTRIAL COLLEGE 


**A School of Character” 


Co-Educational. Fully accredited High School, Normal and College. Strong Faculty. Modern 
uipped dormitories, Administration Building and new gymnasium. Large ath etic field. 
Masual training, auto mechanics, domestic arts, vocal, violin and instrumental music. Teacher 


g, state certificates and ees bureau. 
EALLY LOCATED 


EXPENSES MODERATE 
JUDSON S. HILL, D.D., Seediea 





LIVINGSTONE COLLEGE 
SALISBURY, NORTH CAROLINA 


AN “A” CLASS COLLEGE 


PRESENTS STRONG FACULTY 
MODERN EQUIPMENT 
CO-EDUCATIONAL 


Offers the Following Courses: 


THEOLOGICAL HicH ScHOOL 
LisperaL ARTS AND SCIENCES 
Domestic ARTS AND SCIENCES 

Music 


A School of Liberal Training with Distinct 
Religious Atmosphere. All Athletics 


Next Session September 18 


For Information Address 
W. J. TRENT, President 








SHAW UNIVERSITY 


Founded 1865 
Devoted exclusively to College 
and Theological work. 


“A” class college having a prestige in Ne- 
gro education. Given graduate poe 
Eniversities of the North. With 
increasing emphasis is placed upon 
college standards and the promotion of eol- 
lege spirit in scholarship a athletics. 


ees given: £-8.. B.S., Th.B. and B.S. 
x Ss 


fue at is given to the training 
teachers. Terms moderate. for 


pee AW. UN{V Ei S1TY. RALEIGH, 
CAROLI 


November, 1929 


SEND FOR CATALOG 
Morristown, Tennessee 


SAMUEL HUSTON COLLEGE 


AUSTIN, TEXAS 


A College 
of Liberal Arts 


Recognized as “A” Class by Kansas, Texas, 


North Carolina and Other Northern and South- 
ern States. 
Offering Courses in Arts and Sciences, Business 
Administration, Home Economics and Music. 
In Order to Keep Pace with the Growing Oppor- 
tunity of Training Negro Youth, Now in an 
Effort for $500,000 Endowment and Additional 
Buildings and Equipment. 
For further information address: 

T. R. DAVIS, President. 

J. LEONARD FARMER, Registrar. 





JOHNSON C. SMITH 
UNIVERSITY 


(Formerly Biddle University) 


An “A” Class College for men only. 
A Standard Theological Seminary. 
Faculty composed of men representing 


some of the best colleges and univer- 
sities of the country. Ideal location. 
Seventy-five acres of land. Twenty- 
two buildings. First class equipment. 
Large endowment. 


H. L. McCROREY, Presidest 
Charlotte, North Carolina 





Index to Advertisers 


Plot Winnpersweye sd cece co a acces 391 
Amsterdam News ................. 393 
Atlanta School of Social Work, Inc. 367 


Atlanta, University «fo oceccs ccs. 389 
ROEM SCHOOL 22 a cine ok coe OR sc 366 
Brick Junior CONE hips ceed ae 366 
Burrell Memorial Hospital .......... 391 
Cardinal Gibbons Institute .......... 367 
Cheyney Training School for Teachers 391 
Clarke University ..o.5. occ cies iciecens 366 
Crisis Book Mart .................. 366 
CAE CN og io avons so oe 393 
Downington I. & A. School ......... 393 
Dunbar Bank, N. Y. ................ 392 
eee, en eas 364 
Florida N. & C. Institute ............ 367 
Hair Specialty Company ............ 390 
Hampton: Tnstittite: . «oc occ esis ociece, 364 
Hartshorn Memorial Collewe.....620. 389 
ROGGE DSi os dee 394 
RRM OMIT. facia. 3' See a 394 
House of Chowning ................ 392 
Howard University: 

ROMP MET, cals cad cts haste ee eae 389 

mcnool Of Religion. >.<: .06sc0u oc. 389 
Johnson C. Smith University ........ 367 
Knoxville College .................. 389 
Lincoln School for Nurses .......... 391 
Lincoln Secretarial School .......... 390 
Linéoln Wmiversity os ccc sccccccesses 366 
Livitigstone: College ........5. 0.5 con. 367 
ROR Oy Bihs aes occecse cole maeaene 390 
Meharry Medical College ............ 364 


Morehouse College 
Mangan \CONeGe eo odeis assists skew se 364 


Morristown N. & I. College ......... 367 
Ne A Ae CyB: Manas Seale 0. 2550 389 
National Negro Hymn .............. 393 
National Training School ........... 393 
Rost: CONEEO fa cee dete R see ee. 392 
Samuel L. Huston College .......... 367 
St. Augustine’s College .............. 391 
Sts. MAEy 6 SCHMOE i oi ecuiclicocccecces 389 
SMM LIMICOERIEN oes kc eagecus eee 367 
SION. UNSVOREEDS oo 6 cccleeaaens 393 


Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc. 
Inside Front Cover 


SOUiNer ty (Shee Ris soca ase Secetes 391 
State A. & M. College, S.C. ....... 391 
Stenographers’ Institute ............ 391 
Vadladéaa) COmege vcs caivaccd. exsdes 389 
RIMMED So as oss claeeess homens 394 
Tuskegee N. & I. Institute .......... 364 
Victory Lie ving. C6. oi acescaseaes 363 
Virginia Union University .......... 393 


Mme. C. J. Walker Mfg. Co., Inc. 

Back Cover 
Watchman Industrial School ........ 391 
Wiley COMBO a se kcccgw aa racate sane 393 


Y. M. C. A. Wabash Ave. Branch, 
CIMIGAOE. 2 oo fs cucerl cena tca ou aan 394 


In writing to any advertiser in this mag- 
azine you will confer a favor on the pub- 
lishers by mentioning THe Crisis. 


367 





Drawing by James LeSesne Wells. 


“And if thou draw owt thy soul to the hungry and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy 
darkness be as the noonday.”—Isaiah, 58:10 


368 THE Crisis 









y 








is 

ne 
py 
i 





statute law was enacted for the 
purpose of effecting the American 
Negro. The tendency, particularly in 
certain localities, to disregard justice 
and to see only the color of the litigant 
before the court, resulted in the en- 
actment of special legislation and the 
adoption of constitutional amendments 
for the purpose of insulting and op- 
pressing the Negro. In other locali- 
ties there was special legislation for the 
purpose of protecting and according to 
him his citizenship rights. In order to 
insure his citizenship and_ political 
freedom the war amendments weye 
added to our federal constitution. 
Thereafter, Congress passed certain 
enabling acts to carry into effect the 
provisions of these war amendments. 


Among them was the Civil Rights 
Bill of 1866. Its purpose was to off- 
set the discriminatory laws which were 
being enacted in the southern states; 
as for example, The Black Code of 
South Carolina, which provided, 
among other things, that there should 
be separate courts for the trial of cases 
where a Negro was involved ; that cer- 
tain kinds of businesses and trades 
could not be carried on by Negroes; 
that Negroes should work from sun- 
rise to sunset, every weekday with only 
a short interval for breakfast and din- 
ner and that they should rise at the 
dawn of the morning in order to per- 
form necessary chores prior to going to 
work at sunrise. 

The Fourteenth Amendment super- 
ceded the Civil Rights Bill of 1866. 
Some of the burdens which the local 
laws placed upon the Negro were cor- 
rected. by this Amendment. But de- 
spite the Fourteenth Amendment, the 
southern Negro was not accorded his 
full rights of citizenship so Congress 
in 1875 passed another Civil Rights 
Bill. This bill provided that all per- 
sons within the jurisdiction of the 
United States should be entitled to the 
full and equal enjoyment of the ac- 
commodations, advantages, facilities 
and privileges of inns, public convey- 
ances on land and water, theatres and 
other places of public amusement, sub- 
ject only to the conditions established 
by law and applicable alike and to citi- 
zens of every race regardless of color 
Or previous condition of servitude. 


The United States Supreme Court 
in 1883 declared this last Civil Rights 
Bill unconstitutional, holding that the 
Thirteenth Amendment did not au- 
thorize it, nor did the Fourteenth, be- 
Cause it referred to the states while the 


A LARGE portion of American 


November, 1929 





The Negro in Law 


By WILLIAM T. ANDREWS 


Mr. Andrews has been since De- 
cember, 1927, Special Legal As- 
sistant in the Executive Offices of 


the N. 4. A. C. P. in New York. 
He is a member of the New York 
Bar. 





bill referred to individual discrimina- 
tion. 

As a consequence of this decision 
many state legislatures passed laws on 
behalf of the Negro, according him full 
and equal accommodations as enumer- 
ated in the second Civil Rights Bill. 
The South too enacted special laws 
with regard to the Negro but these 
laws called for the separation of the 
races resulting in such things as “Jim 
Crow” cars and the wasteful separate 
school system of the South. 

The most widely adopted form of 
special legislation involving the Negro 
is that which purports to prohibit mar- 
riages between Negroes and whites. At 
least twenty-nine states make such mar- 
riages void and a number of these pun- 
ish the parties who enter into such a 
marital contract. The State of Vir- 
ginia by its Racial Integrity Law goes 
to the limit. The National Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Colored 
People has opposed anti-inter-marriage 
laws in a number of states on the 
ground that they place a badge of in- 
feriority upon the less privileged race 
and leave the women of that race open 


Raymond Pace Alexander : 
President of the National Bar Association 





to the lusts of the men of the dominent 
race. 


In order to mistreat the Negro, 
Southern leaders understood that the 
ballot must be taken away from him 
and kept out of his hands. Legal at- 
tempts at disfranchisement have been 
made: the first of these was by what is 
popularly referred to as the ‘“Grand- 
father Clause.” Seven Southern 
states by constitutional amendments 
and by statutes permitted persons who 
could not fulfill educational or property 
tests to vote if they had been soldiers 
in the Civil War or were lineal de- 
scendants of persons who had the right 
to vote before the Civil War. Obvi- 
ously the Southern Negro could not 
qualify. 


The United States Supreme Court 
in passing upon these special laws de- 
signed to effect the Negro, held such 
laws invalid. This was in Guinn vs. 
The United States. 


Hence, a new subterfuge became 
necessary and so the idea of “white” 
primaries was conceived. In 1927 the 
National Association for the Advance- 
ment of Colored People carried the 
case of Herndon vs. Nixon to the 
United States Supreme Court and 
there it was held that statutes per- 
mitting primaries and which in them- 
selves prevented Negroes from partici- 
pating were invalid. ‘The same Asso- 
ciation is now interested in three other 
cases which are designed to test one 
other method by which “white’’ pri- 
maries are now being conducted. Since 
the Supreme Court has held that the 
legislatures may not pass laws prohibit- 
ing Negroes from participating in pri- 
maries, the same legislatures are pass- 
ing enabling acts permitting state and 
county committees of the political par- 
ties to lay down the requirements for 
participation in the primaries. Under 
this purported delegation of power the 
only effective party in the South has by 
resolution prohibited Negroes from 
participation in state and municipal pri- 
mary elections. It is hoped that one 
of these cases will soon reach the 
United States Supreme Court for a 
definite decision on the quéstion. 


Even the health and comfort of Ne- 
groes have been struck at by discrimi- 
natory laws. Municipalities have en- 
acted ordinances which prohibited the 
sale or occupancy of houses to Negroes 
in so-called white blocks, and with a 
jest at equality, likewise restricted 
white persons. It is an inconvertible 


(Will you please turn to page 390) 
369 


+ 


HE first thing I can remember is 
Aunt Sarah crying when Abra- 
ham Lincoln was assassinated. She sat 
in her little old-fashioned rocker smok- 
ing an old black pipe and moaned, 
“Now the colored people will become 
slaves again!’’ Uncle Harry didn’t say 
very much. As I close my eyes I can 
see him now, walking up and down the 
room with his hands locked behind him. 
We lived on the outskirts of Kent, 
New York, and although Aunt Sarah 
and Uncle Harry had never been 
slaves there was always a fear in their 
hearts that with the changing of laws 
they might become such. 

I was about six years old then and 
mother had given me to Aunt Sarah to 
raise as there were so many small 
mouths to feed at mother’s. 

Aunt Sarah rented a small wood- 
colored house consisting of one large 
room with a fire place on one side. Here 
we ate, slept, cooked our simple meals, 
and in the winter time washings added 
to the other confusion. We were very 
poor so even though young I was 
forced to do my share. Aunt Sarah 
worked by the day and as I was not to 
be trusted alone in the house on ac- 
count of fire, I was forced to trudge 
along beside her. 

I slept in a little trundle-bed that 
was rolled under the big bed during the 
day. Often in the early morning when 
I was sleeping soundly, Aunt Sarah 
would roughly shake me saying, “Time 
to get up, Annie!” O, how I longed to 
lie just a few minutes longer as it 
hardly seemed possible that it was 
morning already but I dare not dis- 
please her. So I would dress as quickly 
as possible as it was one of my duties 
to go to the Spring at the foot of the 
hill for water. Dido, the dog would 
go with me, barking with all his might 
and sometimes chasing a stray wood- 
chuck if he should chance to see one. 

Near the Spring grew a large chest- 
nut tree whose branches overhung the 
Spring and reflected shadows in the 
water, but I had little time in the early 
morning to admire shadows and dream 
as Aunt Sarah had to be at work by 
seven and ‘we had quite a distance to 
walk. Sometimes we were fortunate 
enough to catch a ride with some 
farmer who was going into town and 
then Aunt Sarah and he would talk 
over the local gossip while I would lis- 
ten with both ears as children were to 
be seen and not heard in those days. 
Perhaps he would assure her that the 
slaves were free forever even though 


370 


Aunt Sarah 


By ELIZABETH KAELE 





The Author 


Abraham Lincoln was dead. 

It was a glorious day for me when 
Aunt Sarah worked at Snyders where 
there were children. As I was the only 
black child for miles around I was 
quite a novelty. So they petted and 
teased me and pulled by pig tails and 
joked about my color, but I was too 
young and ignorant to resent, espe- 
cially as they gave me fat molasses 
cookies. 

Finally after her days work was 
finished we would return home, often 
laden with food and various articles 
of cast-off clothing. Aunt Sarah would 
often scold because I walked so slowly 
but how could I help it when the roads 
were rough and sometimes the nails in 
my coarse shoes hurt my feet. 

Dido would run down the hill to 
meet us sniffing at our bundles in hopes 
there was a bone for him. 

Perhaps Uncle Harry had been suc- 
cessful that day and caught some fish. 
Then we would have fried fish and hoe- 
cake baked in the ashes. After supper 
we would sit by the fire-place, Aunt 
Sarah joining Uncle Harry in smoking 
until sometimes the room was so full of 
smoke I nearly strangled. They would 
tell the most hair-raising stories, all 
about ghosts and runaway slaves who 
hid in the swamps and the awful cruel- 
ities their masters and overseers com- 
mitted when they were caught. 

Once they told an amazing tale how 
the Devil himself chased a man all the 


way home and then vanished in a huge 
puff of smoke. 

When the wind was blowing and the 
branches of the trees would snap and 
crack, I was so frightened that some 
terrible spirit would come down the 
chimney and steal me, and if I’d awak- 
en in the night I’d pull the blankets 
closer over my head. 

Uncle Harry was a “happy-go- 
lucky” sort of a fellow, and all Aunt 
Sarah’s nagging couldn’t make him get 
a steady job and keep it. He believed 
the good Lord would provide. He also 
had a hope that some day he would find 
a pot of gold. I loved him best and 
Aunt Sarah resented that. 

Sometimes when I would see him 
coming down the lane at the foot of the 
hill I would start to meet him, but 
Aunt Sarah would call, “Come Annie 
and put your bonnet on.” By the time 
I had found my bonnet he would be 
home. Other times I would succeed in 
meeting him and he would carry me 
up the hill piggy-back. Then Aunt 
Sarah would scold and say, “Harry, 
you old fool to tote that heavy child.” 
Once there was a little squirrel that 
used to help himself to our chicken 
corn. So one day Aunt Sarah said, 
“Harry I do wish you would shoot that 
squirrel!” Well Uncle Harry put it 
off from day to day and still the little 
squirrel lived on and ate corn. Finally 
Aunt Sarah became exasperated and 
caught the poor little thief in a trap. 
Then calling Uncle Harry she said, 
“Harry, I believe there’s that squirrel 
down near the lilac bush.” So he got 
his gun to shoot the squirrel and when 
he discovered the joke, wasn’t he angry 
and I didn’t dare sympathize with him 
just then. 

In those days there were no free 
public schools but Aunt Sarah decided 
that I should have some book-learning, 
so she arranged to do the school-mis- 
tress’s laundry in exchange for my tui- 
tion. At that time I little realized 
the sacrifice that meant. 

I must have presented a comical fig- 
ure going to school dressed in other 
people’s old clothes that were never al- 
tered to fit me. But I was happy and 
carefree. Didn’t I have an old ragged 
primer and a broken slate of my very 
own? 

Since neither Aunt Sarah or Uncle 
Harry could either read or write they 
were very anxious for me to learn. 

Finally Uncle Harry caught pneu- 
monia and after a few days illness died. 
I can’t remember very much about his 


THE CRrIsIs 









p> em oh ot a & 








death and burial except he was buried 
in the Episcopal church yard, but I do 
remember how I missed him. Dido 
and I would walk through the woods 
trying to find him and when we came 
to the field where he used to dig old 
stumps I would call, “Uncle Harry! 
Uncle Harry!” to the top of my voice 
and Dido would join me by barking. 

After Uncle Harry’s death there 
were no more pleasant evenings around 
our fire place. Aunt Sarah would sit 
silently in her little rocker, her hands 
lying idle in her lap for hours at a time. 
Sometimes I longed to place my chubby 
little arms around her neck and try to 
cheer her but she always held me at a 
distance. Although Uncle Harry didn’t 
seem to amount to very much while liv- 
ing yet our home was so lonesome 
without him. 


One day when I came home from 
school I was astonished to see a pleas- 
ant faced black woman chatting famil- 
iarly with Aunt Sarah. As I had 
never seen many colored people I could 
not keep from staring at her. Aunt 
Sarah said, “‘Annie, this is Cousin 
Jule, make her your best courtesy.” 

Looking me over from head to foot 
Cousin Jule said, “So this is Becky’s 
little girl.” Then she folded me in 
her arms and I knew here was some- 
one to take Uncle Harry’s place in my 
affections. That night Aunt Sarah 
was more like her old self and I fell 
asleep listening to the soft murmur of 
their voices. 

It was several days before I learned 
the secret of Cousin Jule’s visit. She 
had also recently lost her husband and 
wished Aunt Sarah to move to Union 
Springs with her and work in the 
laundry of a young ladies’ boarding 
school. At first Aunt Sarah wouldn’t 
consent but finally gave in after Cousin 
Jule pointed out the many advantages 
of living in town and my being able to 
attend a better school. 


I was delighted at the prospect of 
moving until I found out we couldn’t 
take Dido and then I spent a tearful 
evening and all Cousin Jule’s caress- 
ing wouldn’t console me. I hugged 
Dido and tried to explain and he wag- 
ged his little tail and frisked about as 
though he understood. 


The next few days were busy ones, 
Cousin Jule remaining to help Aunt 
Sarah pack up our few articles of furni- 
ture and store them in an old aban- 
doned barn. I returned from school 
one night to find that Aunt Sarah had 
given Dido away, so I was denied the 
privilege of bidding him a last “Good 
Bye.” 

Finally the morning came for our 
departure and our last bundle was 
packed and tied and we were waiting 
for Mr. Snyder to drive us into town 


November, 1929 











so we could catch the stage. As I 
walked down the hill and cast a back- 
ward glance at the home where I had 
spent so many happy days I little 
dreamed I would never see it again. 
When we arrived in town Mr. Snyder 
helped us transfer our numerous bun- 
dles from his wagon to the stage. He 
also gave me a quarter as a parting 
gift and as I had never had so much 
money at one time it seemed like a 
small fortune to me. I was lugging 
my old wooden doll—but to me she 
was a real live baby who returned my 
love. 


The stage driver was a jolly fellow 
and asked me if I was going out into 
the world to seek my fortune. About 
noon we arrived in Salem where we 
changed from the stage to the steam 
cars and as I had never seen a locomo- 
tive | was greatly interested. We sat 
in the station and ate our lunch but I 
was too busy watching the sights to 
enjoy food. After awhile our train 
pulled in puffing and blowing like an 
old woman with the asthma and I was 
hurried aboard before I could examine 
Ms 


It hardly seemed possible that at last 
I was riding on a real steam train and 
1 was almost afraid I would awaken 
and find it “only a dream.” After a 
while a cinder blew in my eye and then 
I realized for certain that 1 was awake 
and riding. Aunt Sarah soon lost pa- 
tience trying to locate it so finally 
Cousin Jule cuddled both me and my 
doll close to her and told me stories in 
her soft musical voice until I fell 
asleep. 


When I awakened it was nearly dark 
and the train was pulling into Union 
Springs. I found out afterward that 
Cousin Jule lived near the station but 
that night it seemed miles and miles 
and I wished I was home safe and 
sound in my little trundle bed with 
Dido sleeping alongside on the floor. 


Next morning I was awakened by 
the smell of salt-pork frying and it 
was sometime before I could realize 
where I was. After breakfast Cousin 
Jule walked with us over to the school. 
I was awe stricken when I first saw 
that stately building surrounded with 
beautiful trees and shrubs as at that 
time I didn’t know there were such 
wonderful places in the world. We 
walked around to the back door and 
entered a spacious kitchen where 
Cousin Jule introduced Aunt Sarah to 
the cook who impressed me as being the 
fattest red headed Irish woman I had 
ever seen. ‘Turning to me the cook 
said, ““What’s your name little one?” 
I was bashful and wouldn’t talk so she 
said, “To be sure and she’s lost her 
tongue.” But all her teasing couldn’t 
make me say anything. 





Then we met Mrs. Grange, the 
housekeeper who hired Aunt Sarah and 
arranged for us to have our meals in 
the kitchen. Taking me by the hand 
Mrs. Grange walked with me down a 
lung wide hall and we entered a 
school room where a class was in sec- 
sion, 

Will I ever forget that first moment 
when it seemed as though a thousand 
pairs of curious eyes were turned on me 
all at once. Speaking to the teacher 
Mrs. Grange said, “Miss Bowek, this 
is Annie our new laundress’s little girl, 
whom I’l leave with you for a few 
minutes so she can become acquainted.” 


As I sat there listening to the recita- 
tions and noticed how nicely these girls 
were dressed, for the first time in my 
life I began to realize my dirty and 
unkempt appearance. Later some of 
these very children scorned me because 
| was poor and black but at that time 
they looked like bright angels to me. 


Next morning I started school in 
earnest. Greatly as I desired an educa- 
tion yet I dreaded mingling with these 
children. During recess little Mary 
Smith came over to where I was stand- 
ing alone and began questioning me. 
Soon some of the others followed and 
after a while I was busily engaged tell- 
ing them all about losing Uncle Harry 
and Dido and about my beautiful dolly 
Lilly Ann. 

Life went peacefully for a while and 
I made quite rapid progress in my 
school work. It wasn’t long before I 
was able to stumble through certain 
books, mispronouncing some words, 
guessing at others and skipping others 
altogether, but Aunt Sarah and Cousin 
Jule seemed happy while listening to 
me read in the evening by the light of a 
little smelly grease candle. 


Then Cousin Jule got a beau and 
after that things didn’t go as well. He 
was a white man who worked as hos- 
tler at the village tavern. Aunt Sarah 
was very much disgusted that Cousin 
Jule should mix up with a white man 
and she didn’t hesitate to express her 
opinion about it to Cousin Jule. The 
tranquility of our little home was dis- 
turbed with their fussing and quarrel- 
ing. Cousin Jule would watch her 
chance and steal some of Aunt Sarah’s 
clothes to wear when she went out to 
see this man. 


After worrying along for several 
months Aunt Sarah decided to give me 
back to my mother and go work in ser- 
vice. 

Mother took me to a different part 
of the state to live and I never saw 
Aunt Sarah again. Since she could 
neither read or write we seldom heard 
from her and as I was happy with my 


(Will you please turn to page 391) 


371 





E are maintaining fifty-seven mis- 

sionaries in Africa, four home on 
furlough with four additional ones un- 
der appointment all of whom should be 
in Africa in the next few months. Of 
our total number of missionaries, seven- 
teen are American born. The remain- 
ing number are native Africans; six 
were trained in this country, and one in 
Europe. Among this number are 
seven medical missionaries—four doc- 
tors, three nurses. An additional doc- 
tor, dentist and nurse are under ap- 
pointment. These will bring the total 
number of our medical missionaries to 
ten. 

During the past year 12,830 treat- 
ments were given by our medical mis- 
sionaries. 7,820 of these treatments 
were given in our hospital which was 
opened in Liberia, over a year ago, 
patients having begun to come for 
treatments long before the building was 
actually finished. Our efficient dentist 
in this hospital, who was the only one 
in all. of Liberia, practically worked 
himself to death during his first year 
of service. He died one year from the 
date he began work in the hospital. 
Another very competent dentist from 
Boston has volunteered to take his 
place and is to sail for Liberia in Feb- 
ruary. We have at present a doctor 
and two nurses in the hospital, and 
within the next few months there will 
be an additional physician. One is a 
product of the Woman’s Medical 
School here in Philadelphia with a spe- 
cial course in the London School of 
Tropical Medicine; the other of the 
University of Chicago with additional 
training in Vienna. If we can con- 
tinue the service of the very efficient 
doctor we are now using in our hos- 


Dr. P. E. Dinkins, 


Liberia 


372 


S. C. Williamson 
Liberia 


Colored Baptist Missions 


By Dr. J. E. EAST 


Dr. East is Secretary of the 
Foreign Missionary Board of the 
National Baptist Convention 


(Inc.). We have asked him to tell 
us what Negro Baptists are trying 
to do for Africa. 





pital, we shall have three. He has had 
training in some of Europe’s best medi- 
cal schools with additional training in 
the London School of Tropical Medi- 
cine. QOur dentist and nurses are from 
America’s best schools for teaching 
such professions. Africa’s poor afflicted 
people make a beaten path to our hos- 
pital both day and night. 

Our other missionaries who are do- 
ing evangelistic and educational work 
have also made progress during the 
past year. We have twenty-two Main 
Mission Stations. Several of these 
Main Stations have many Out Sta- 
tions, some as many as fifteen. They 
are located at five different points on 
the Continent of Africa. We confess 
that more good would be done if we 
ceuld centralize at one point. That 
can not be done just now. We have 
twenty-four Day Schools that are 
crowded day after day during the 
school term which generally holds nine 
months to a year. The school build- 
ings are not good. In many places 
they are improved native huts. There 
is much to be desired about the train- 
ing of some of the teachers. However, 
the hundreds of little native children 
who daily crowd these Schools are be- 
ing helped in many ways. We also 


have six Boarding Schools located in 
the midst of large native centers 
which are crowded with little children, 
many of whom wore their first shirts 


Colored Baptist Missionaries in Africa 


Dr. D. S. Malekebu, 
East Africa 


a 


a 
MONT 


R. E. Occomy, R.N. 
Liberia 


and dresses on the mission grounds. At 
three of these Boarding Schools we are 
putting up substantial buildings, and 
giving them a fairly good staff of 
teachers. High school work together 
with manual training is being taught. 
The receipts of our Board were 
$103,672.93 at the close of our fiscal 
year which ended June 30th. This does 
not include one gift and boxes of 
new material for clothing children and 
linen for our new hospital, the value 
of which would increase our receipts 
some six thousand dollars. Of the 
amount collected $9,500 was spent 
in connection with our hospital in 
Monrovia, Liberia. The doctor in 
charge of the said hospital was trained 
in Philadelphia at the Women’s Medi- 
cal College, and had ten years of prac- 
tice here in America. She was in 
charge of the Congregational Hospita! 
in Greenwood, S. C. when she con- 
tracted to work with us. She is the 
daughter of the late Dr. Dinkins who 
was President of Selma University, 
Selma, Ala. In addition to her train- 
ing in this country Dr. Pauline Din- 
kins was given a course in the School 
of Tropical Medicine,“ London, Eng- 
land, which she finished very creditably 
in 1929. The other two doctors are 
graduates of Meharry Medical School. 
Our policy is to send as many 
young men and women between the 
ages of 23 and 33, who are of good 
character, highly trained, thoroughly 
consecrated and dedicated to the 
work as possible, for the industrial, 
educational and religious training in 
our Mission Stations in Africa. We 
are now negotiating with one of our 
leading mission schools in this country 
(Will you please turn to page 391) 











R. Turner, R.N. 


Liberia 


Tue Crisis 












At 
are 
and 
of 
her 
nt. 
vere 
scal 
loes 
of 
and 
ilue 
ipts 
the 
ent 
in 
in 
ned 
edi- 
rac- 
in 
ita! 
on- 
the 
vho 
ity, 
ain- 
Jin- 
1ool 
ng- 
ibly 
are 
ool. 
any 


the 


Countée Cullen on Miscegenation 


Paris, April 1, 1929. 

ADAME CLAIRE GOLL is 

slight, blond, and pretty; born 
of French parents and educated in Ger- 
many, she can write her books in either 
language and translate them herself for 
publication in the other. She speaks 
English with a prepositional inaccuracy 
that is at once charming and amusing, 
and to me, as I listen to her across the 
tea table, an index of what similar 
grammatical mesalliances I must be 
guilty of in my attempts at French. 
There can be no doubt that Madame 
is largely and sincerely interested in the 
Negro. On her wall hangs a magnifi- 
cent African mask; on her bookshelf 
shines in the lustre of a new and recent 
edition her German translations of two 
of René Maran’s books; and Madame 
admits with a bit of real chagrin that 
for some time she has been compiling 
an anthology of verse by Negro poets, 
only to find her work in vain through 
the recent publication in Vienna of Dr. 
Anna Nussbaum’s anthology, “Afrika 
Singt.” 

Madame’s interest in the Negro has 
further attestation in that her latest 
novel “Le Neégre Jupiter Enleve 
Europe’ (The Negro Jupiter Rav- 
ishes Europe) is a story of miscegena- 
tion. The mythical allusion does not 
seem to me altogether well-chosen, for 
Europa was a young and _ beautiful 
maiden whom Jupiter, who never al- 
lowed the vast and exacting duties of 
godhead to interfere with his amatory 
holidays, bore off and seduced after 
having first transformed himself into 
a bull in order that Juno might not 
recognize her dallying and recreant 
spouse. But Jupiter was the king of 
all the gods, more of an autocrat than 
the former czars of all the Russias, 
and an enlevement by him was a neat 
and finished job. On the other hand, 
irrespective of the inroad that black 
men in various capacities are making 
into European life, swallowed up as 
they are among the white population 
they are no more to be feared than a 
handful of sand added to the millions 
of grains that make the Sahara, no 
more than a cup of water thrown into 
the sea. 


The story concerns the meeting, at a 
reception given at the Swedish Em- 
bassy in Paris, of Alma Valery and 
Jupiter Djiboutii—Alma, a lovely 
blond woman of French and Swedish 
parentage and of small mental equip- 
ment, Jupiter, an African Negro, an 
executive in the cabinet of the Minis- 
ter of Foreign Colonies, and in his 
own land a prince of the blood. They 
are married, and rapidly the story goes 


November, 1920 


forward to what the formula, even 
in a foreign country, seems to require 
of such a novel: the husband’s em- 
barrassment and the wife’s chagrin at 
the stares and the remarks, as often 
overt as sotto voce, that attend their 
presence together at social affairs and 
in the streets; a growing jealousy on 
the part of Jupiter and an increasing 
antipathy on Alma’s part, dire portents 
of an end which even the arrival of a 
baby does not curtail, the infidelity of 
Alma and her subsequent murder by 
Jupiter. I have no personal brief for 
intermarriage, but I do await eagerly 
the advent of that pioneer who will 
in the face of . . . it is true, not mil- 
lions, but surely several . . . success- 
ful interracial marriages forget his 
formula and write one such story in 
which the ending will be happy and 
probable. It is my belief that such 
marriages when they prove unhappy, 
have color no more than others as the 
cause of their disintegration. “Traced 
sedulously to their final causes we 
should probably find in most cases 
vanity, cockiness, touchiness, satiety 
and a hundred and one other abstrac- 
tions of the human ego that play havoc, 
unless firmly taken in hand, with any 
two people, irrespective of their color; 
although it is easier, in cases where 
color differences do appear, to cast all 
the blame in that direction. ‘Though 
it is evident that Madame Goll is sym- 
pathetic with the Negro, it is equally 
evident that she has allowed herself to 
become too readily receptive of some 
outworn shibboleths. Jupiter, contrary 
to the depiction of Negroes by many 
authors, is the soul of cleanliness; in 
fact he seems rather on the verge of 
scrubbing his health away. But to off- 
set this, because he is a Negro, he is 
gifted with olfactory powers that bor- 
der on the ridiculous. Also there is 
more imagination, I opine, than accu- 
racy in Jupiter’s acute desire to be 
lighter complexioned, a desire so in- 
tense in his childhood that having 
heard that if one stayed in the rain 
long enough this miracle would be ac- 
complished, he sallied forth and stood 
naked and shivering for hours in a 
storm, with the result that he barely 
escaped death by pneumonia, and final- 
ly rose from a sick bed cleaner but 
no paler. He was even tormented 
with the idea that in heaven there 
might be some black angels instead of 
a fulfillment of the Christian promise 
that all should be as white as snow. 
Jupiter would doubtless have changed 
the wording of that enticement to read 
not “though your sins be.as scarlet;” 
but “though your skins be as pitch” 


“they shall be white as snow”. 
Fantastic reasoning is stretched to its 
uttermost in this assertion: “stuffed 
snails angered him, for he had an in- 
stinctive disgust for all things spirally 
shaped. Perhaps he might have, on 
reflecting, found the cause of this re- 
pulsion: it was because of his hair, of 
which each one formed one of those ac- 
cursed spirals.” Yet as I drank Mad- 
ame’s tea and talked with her I could 
forgive her this gigantic heaving of 
Pelion on Ossa; for when Madame 
speaks of the Negro’s artistic endeavors 
today, she is well nigh irresistable if 
one does not hold himself in check 
against the enormity of her enthusiasm. 


Madame is of the opinion that little 
of artistic merit is now being produced 
in America except that which is being 
done by Negroes; the American short 
story writers and novelists have run 
out of material; the American poets 
are monotonous and repetitious; but the 
Negro alone has life and action and 
material unplumbed out of which the 
new literature is to come. In vain I 
mention some names: Frost and Rob- 
inson and Millay; Anderson and 
Cather and O’Neill; timidly I venture 
the opinion that these are names be- 
fore whom it is just to bow the knee, 
and that their ore does not seem ‘to 
have run out. Madame makes me 
feel that I am recreant, disloyal, a 
literary heretic, a blind man stumbling 
along in the light of the new day. Just 
atchly enough not to offend me, ‘yet 
accusingly, she turns to one of my 
poems, and indicts me for my love of 
Keats, for concerning. myself with 
names like Endymion and Lancelot. and 
Jupiter. It is on the tip of my tongue 
to ask why Keats himself should have 
concerned himself with themes like 
Endymion and Hyperion, but I‘ am 
drinking Madame’s tea. . . . Later, out 
in the cool Parisian air, I ponder 
where all this will lead us. ‘Must ‘we, 
willy-nily, be forced into writing of 
nothing but the old atavistic urges, the 
more savage and none too beautiful 
aspects of our lives? May we not 
chant a hymn to the Sun God if we 
will, create a bit of phantasy in which 
not a spiritual or a blues appears, write 
a tract defending Christianity though 
its practitioners aid us so little in our 
argument; in short do, write, create, 
what we will, our only concern being 
that we do it well and with all the 
power in us? Ah, Madame, I have 
drunk your tea and read your book 
and thought you a charming hostess, 
but I have not been converted. 


CouNTEE CULLEN. 


373 












































































































































F six young persons start out upon 
their career, what is the object 
which they seek? Here is a singer. 
He seeks, of course, to sing songs 
well. Or a minister. He seeks to 
advance religious ideals. A teacher 
imparts truth and searches for it. 
A physician tries to heal and pre- 
serve health. A lawyer contends for 
law and justice. All this is clear for 
five of our boys; but when it comes, 
for instance, to the grocer, we all say 
frankly the grocer seeks profit. We 
do not visualize, indeed many of us do 
not clearly know, of any service or 
ideal aim which the grocer follows, ex- 
cept that of personal profit. Of none 
of the other five employments men- 
tioned do we for a moment make so 
narrow an object. The singer may 
receive high fees, but he protests that 
Music is his life work. There may be 
physicians who will not spoil their 
night’s rest for a call that involves no 
cash teturn; but they do not adver- 
tise this fact and continually we see 
physicians giving time and talent for 
nothing because they are “interested”’. 
If a minister is called to a church that 
offers a higher salary he hastens to deny 
that the salary in itself was the main 
reason of his decision. No lawyer 
openly advertises for the highest pay- 
ing client or openly neglects the cause 
of a poor unfortunate litigant. 

Only the grocer of this group says 
frankly that he is trying to make money 
and that the more money he makes out 
of the grocery business the more suc- 
cessful he is. If he’leaves the grocery 
store for the drygoods business he is 
regarded as having given full explana- 
tion when he says that he can “make 
more” in drygoods. 


OW it is precisely this difference of 
attitude and opinion as to the aims 
of business and the aims of art and 
science that indicates where the trou- 
ble-spot of the modern economic world 
Kes. For it is not true that the busi- 
ness man, that industrial organization 
renders no public service. It is only 
true that public opinion ignores the 
high value of the real service of busi- 
ness men and judges them by a purely 
artificial and dangerous standard— 
that is, the private income they gain. 
This false standard is all the more 
dangerous because of the extraordinary 
opportunities of modern business. In- 
vention, technical efficiency and dis- 
covery make industry and business an 
enthralling field. A very large por- 


374 


Business as Public Service 


By W. E. BURGHARDT DU BOIS 


This article was first written for 
the N. A. A. C. P. when it met at 
Indianapolis. It is offered here as 
the first of a series of re-statements 
of current Negro problems, which 
we plan for our twentieth year of 
publication. 


tion of the keenest minds, best abil- 
ity and strongest characters goes into 
business and industry and yet from 
these men and from their careers we 
strip or we seek to strip most of those 
ideals and restraints which lie around 


all other human services. There is no 
doubt of the service which the busi- 
ness man, the industrial leader, gives 
to the world. ‘They have transformed 
modern civilization and the only thing 
that makes the culture of today in any 
way greater than the culture of other 
days; the only respect in which we sur- 
pass Rome, Egypt, Babylon, is the ex- 
traordinary service of modern business 
in transforming raw materials, trans- 
porting goods to consumers, applying 
power, adapting the forces of nature 
and supplying regularly the multitudi- 
nous physical wants of modern men. 
We are right to compare this service 














with the service of the artist, the scien- 
tist and the worker for social uplift. 

In the case of these other workers. 
however, the world deems their work 
well rewarded if it is well done and 
if they have enough to sustain life in 
such a way that the work can be well 
done. On the other hand, with the 
business man, we have persuaded our- 
selves that the personal income which 
he is able to make from business trans- 
actions is his reward and we make no 
real attempt to proportion that reward 
according to the service which he ren- 
ders his town, his country or mankind 
Indeed if he can legally secure the 
income, we protect him in its enjoy- 
ment, even if he got it by gambling, 
robbery and murder or other actual 
disservice to civilization. 


HIS more or less unconscious be- 

lief of the majority of thinking 
men has put tremendous power into the 
hands of business men. For income is 
power—power over goods, over the ser- 
vices of men, over the size of their 
wages, their homes, the conditions of 
their work and the direction and results 
of their work. Great income is great 
power. The ruling monarchs today 
are the men who control great income. 
Once birth and politics gave this con- 






Show-room of a Negro Furniture Manufacturing Plant, Los Angeles, Cal. 


THe Crisis 













trol. ‘loday business is the controlling 
power. The results are obvious. 
Business men rule everywhere. We 
find them ruling in religion: it is the 
business man who says today what shall 
be taught and believed in churches. 
He rules in art and says what may and 
may not be designed and painted and 
put in monuments. It is the leaders 
of industry who determine what shall 
be regarded as truth in the history and 
economics and social studies which are 
taught in our schools and colleges. We 
tried to establish democratic govern- 
ment in England, France, the United 
States and elsewhere and we have done 
so over limited fields of endeavor; but 
we all know that the scope of demo- 
cratic control is very small and that 
in the wider sphere of work and wages, 
income, rent, taxes, housing, streets, 
city and country life, health, amuse- 
ments and recreation—it is organized 
and oligarchically guided industry and 
not democracy which rules. 


O tremendous is this power of or- 
S ganized industry today that it 
transforms our ideals of right and 
wrong, of crime and morality. There 
is practically nothing that cannot be 
done and be called good if it returns 
large enough profit to the industrial 
doers. The result of this is a singular 
sense of contradiction, futility, often 
despair and certain unhappiness in all 
modern culture. Our world is wider, 
richer, more powerful, more spectacu- 
lar than the worlds of the past, but it 
is illogical and unhappy, despite 6,000 
vears of modern conscious develop- 
ment. 

The reason for much of this muddle 
is plainly because the energy of the 
leading men of the world is diverted 
from seeking directly to serve man- 
kind toward an endeavor to increase 
their incomes and garner the conse- 
quent tremendous social power to a 
degree which far surpasses their knowl- 
edge or ability to use it. It is the old 
story of monarchs mad with power. 


Many men of many nations have 
tried to lay bare this sore spot of mod- 
ern culture in an endeavor to heal it; 
but of all the nations today only Rus- 
sia has made a determined and frontal 
attack upon the profit idea. This at- 
tack has been obscured and hindered 
by a thousand obstacles. The Bol- 
shevik experiment may not succeed, 
but even if it does not succeed it is at 
least a facing of a plain, persistent and 
threatening evil which all honest minds 
see. Russia says to the world that the 
object of business and industry, just 
like the object of art and science, is 
the service of the mass of mankind; 
and that there is no more room for 
private profit in the work of an en- 
gineer or a merchant than there is in 


November, 1020 


the work of a teacher or a singer. In 
all cases and for all human effort the 
chief reward and the only real reward 
is the service rendered. In order that 
this service may be of the highest value 
to all men, the servant surely must be 
able to live in health, security and rea- 
sonable comfort and for this he needs 
a steady and assured income. He does 
not need great wealth; he certainly 
does not need an income which will 
tempt him to foolishly luxurious waste 
at the cost of poverty, ignorance and 
crime for others; and above all he does 
not need an income which will give 
him irresponsible power beyond his 
vision or grasp. He does need food 
and clothes and shelter and some ex- 
perience of the real beauty of living. 
‘These things need never be dear or un- 
attainable for the average man with 
ordinary exertion. 


realize such an 
ideal whether in Russia, 
France or Americais naturally 
going to be fought. It is going 
to be fought by those people who 
wish to monopolize goods and the ser- 
vices of men for themselves regardless 
of the cost to others or of the public 
good. It is going to be fought by those 
otherwise unselfish persons who firmly 
believe that our present system of high 
income reward for ability is the only 
one suited to present human nature 
and that its surrender means wider dis- 
tress and unhappiness than we see. 


NY attempt to 


For this reason we are not only un- 
willing to contemplate radical eco- 
nomic change in our own land, but 
we are unwilling for Russia even to 


try to experiment in hers. We reel 
forward to increasing monopoly and 
concentrated wealth which continues 
to pile up for us new and staggering 
problems. 


Conceive for a moment this our own 
land. We are rich in oil and iron, 
coal and water power, land and raw 
material. Yet the rights to and own- 
ership of these gifts of God have been 
so. distributed as private property 
among the Captains of American In- 
dustry that the cost of gasoline, steel, 
heat, electricity, cotton, wool, lumber 
and food is from twice to ten times 
as much to the average consumer as 
it would be under a more logical and 
far-sighted system. 

On the other hand, the income of 
those who have monopolized land, oil, 
coal and iron and of those who are 
monopolizing waterpower for the pro- 
duction of electricity reaches dimen- 
sions almost inconceivable. The power 
of these modern industrial Emperors 
surpasses anything that the ancient 
world dreamed of. 

How to extricate ourselves from 
this situation and yet preserve to men 


the best and indispensable services of 
business and industry is the great prob- 
lem of forward-looking modern men. 
It is not reasonable to insist that im- 
moderate private income is the inevit- 
able accompaniment or incentive to 
successful industry. It is not logical 
to admit that human beings who work 
for the work’s sake when the object is 
Beauty and Truth can not be induced 
to work for the work’s sake when the 
object is the food and clothes of mil- 
lions. 


URNING now to the American 

Negro we find that in his business 
and industrial organization, while he is 
subject to all the disadvantage of a 
group with small incomes in a land 
which worships wealth and gives it 
all power, nevertheless, this very ab- 
sence of large incomes in his business 
group emphasizes social service as the 
object of his business and industrial 
life. First of all, the colored busi- 
ness man is looked upon by his public 
and conceived in his own mind as a 
benefactor. He goes into business to 
“help his race!’ He appeals to his 
people for support on the ground that 
his grocery store is a public enterprise 
for their good. Not having a chance 
to enter the inner portals of income 
monopoly his view of business profits 
is less distorted and wrong; his job 
is still largely personal service rather 
than impersonal profit-making. He has 
no chain-stores whose success is a mat- 
ter of stern figures; he is not a part of 
that mass production which is com- 
pelled by its very size to make people 
buy its goods either by propaganda on 
an unanswerable scale or by actual 
physical compulsion. The Negro busi- 
ness man has but small place in the 
credit market, but, consequently, his 
fifty little banks, while insignificant in 
Wall Street, are really places where 
the artisans borrow to pay for their 
tools or householders to buy their 
homes. In other words, the colored 
business man is nearer the service ideal 
and even when his business grows to 
considerable size that ideal still stays 
in the forefront, because of public opin- 
ion and previous emphasis. 

Toward what new does the business 
development of the American Negro 
aim? It faces two possibilities. First, 
it may develop toward the traditional 
and dominant big business of the white 
world, with the idea of gradually se- 
curing a place in the white industrial 
organization or at least of duplicating 
that business development within the 
Negro world with employer and em- 
ployee, landlord and tenant, landowner 
and serf. 

Or, secondly, the Negro may sense 
the fact that modern industry as de- 
veloped today is riding for a fall, and 
(Will you please turn to page 392) 


375 





IR SIDNEY OLIVIER’S “White 
Capital and Colored Labor’ was a 
little book published by English Social- 
ists in 1906. It was soon recognized as 
the best and fairest statement of the 
problems of the emancipated British 
Negro and there has long been wide 
demand for its reprinting. Lord 
Olivier (as the author is now known) 
has at last this year brought out a 
new edition, rewritten and revised. 
The book is now an octavo of 348 
pages published by the Hogarth Press 
of London at $3.00. In this book the 
author has formulated the judgments 
impressed upon him by forty-seven 
years of close contact with the indus- 
trial and social problems of mixed com- 
munities of white and colored men in 
the course of service in the government 
of Africa and West Indian Colonies 
and as a Cabinet Minister, the Secre- 
tary of State for India. 
The book is indispensable to stu- 
dents of Negro problems.. 


Harry Dean’s “The Pedro Gorino”, 
(Houghton Mifflin Company, 1929, 
262 pages, $3.50), records the adven- 
tures of a Negro sea captain in Africa 
and on the Seven Seas in his attempts 
to found an Ethiopian Empire. It is 
written by Captain Dean with the as- 
sistance of Sterling North. 

I saw Harry Dean first in 1900. It 
was in London at the time of the 
World Fair in Paris, when a Pan 
African Conference had been called,— 
the first of the Pan African meetings. 
Dean was bitter. He wanted to lead a 
black army across the straits of Gibral- 
tar. I saw his point of view, but I did 
not think the scheme was practical. 

This book is the interesting and in 
its final chapters, fascinating story of 
Dean’s dream. Perhaps his dream goes 
in some respects beyond the facts, but 
it is all worth reading. He himself 
represents the finest black blood of 
America and is a descendant of the 
well-known Paul Cuffee. 


Paul Morand’s “Black Magic”, 
(The Viking Press, 1929; 218 pages; 
$3.00), is mainly nonsense. It is built 
around the thesis that all persons of 
Negro descent have atavistic urges to 
“go native” on the slightest provoca- 
tion. For instance, the founder of the 
Pan African Congress is represented 





* White’s “Rope and Faggot”, Nearing’s “Black 
America”, Moton’s “What the Negro Thinks”, 
McKay’s “Banjo”, and Larsen’s “Passing” all 
belong perhaps in this survey, but they have 
already been recently reviewed. 


376 


The Negro in Literature 


May to September, 1929* 


as looking upon the treasures of Ter- 
vurien, the great African museum otf 
Belgium, and then “emerges from the 
museum mad—and bellowing.” Of 
course, even on this kind of nonsense, 
literature could be built by a genius, 
but Morand is no genius. 


Three books come to us from the in- 
defatigable University of North Caro- 
lina Press at Chapel Hill. “Black 
Roadways” by Martha W. Beckwith, 
(243 pages), “John Henry”, by Guy 
B. Johnson, (151 pages), and ‘The 
Tree Named John”, by John B. Sale, 
(151 pages). 

They are all books with interesting 
and readable material, but they all 
have the same drawback that makes 
the work of the University of North 
Carolina just fail to meet its goal. The 
Negroes in these books are never hu- 
man. They are lay figures that must 
be fitted into an inherited prejudice. 
Thus, Sales folk tales are not effective 
even though funny because they are 
fitted around an impossible little prig 
of a white boy, and his “black mam- 
my”. Yet, they have interesting and 
new Brer Rabbit stories. In the same 
way, Miss Beckwith’s attempt to 
study Jamaica is padded with well- 
known historical material, like that of 
the Maroons and abounds in generali- 
zations like “the ingenuity of the 
Negro in rationalizing’; but she has 
in her soul no trace of poetry or senti- 
ment and has done her book doggedly. 
Its reading is a duty and not a pleas- 
ure. 

“John Henry” is more interesting 
because of the poetry of its subject. 
““Maybe there was no John Henry. One 
can easily doubt it. But there is a 
vivid, fascinating, tragic legend about 
him which Negro folk have kept alive 
and have cherished for more than half 
a century, and in so doing they have 
enriched the cultural life of America.” 

This legend of the black man who 
is the best steel driver in the world 
and killed himself wielding a hammer, 
has fascination. Mr. Johnson suggests 
that some of the “new Negroes”, whom 
he evidently dislikes, should put John 
Henry into poem, or opera. : 

Quite in contrast with this kind o 
study of the Negro is André Gide’s 
“Travels in the Congo’’, (Knopf; 375 
pages; $5.00). This is a translation of 
two French books which appeared in 
1927 and 1928. The book forms the 
sketchy diary of a long journey in 
French Africa. But it is done with 
sympathy and beauty, and the author 


is not always strutting like a white 
man. Here is a paragraph from the 
last chapter written on the boat: 

“There are some children on board 
—from eleven to fourteen years old. 
The eldest, who is by far the most af- 
fected of the lot, declared to one of the 
little girls that when he grew up, he 
intended to be a ‘literary critic or else 
pick up cigarette ends in the street. 
All or nothing. No medium. That’s 
my motto’. I was hidden in a corner 
of the saloon, sheltered behind a num- 
ber of L’Illustration, and listened to 
them indefatigably. How difficult it is 
to be natural at that age—for a white 
at any rate! One’s single idea is to 
astonish other people—to make a 
show.” 


It is growing increasingly difficult 
for the scientific ““Nigger-hater”. Mod- 
ern psychology has begun to investigate 
the color line. Take this matter of 
instinctive race prejudice concerning 
which we used to know so much: 
The Inquiry, under the leadership 
of Bruno Lasker, has been studying 
“Race Attitudes in Children” and 
“Community Conflict”, (Henry Holt 
and Company and The Inquiry) The 
first book closes with this paragraph: 

“As we close the book, however, it is 
not so much of technical tasks that we 
think, as of a procession of boys and 
girls we have met in these pages: Mar- 
tha Lum, denied an education by deci- 
sion of the Supreme Court of the 
United States; the little boy who was 
deprived of his white playmate; the 
bewildered southern boy in the north 
ern school; the Jewish adolescent who 
grew too quickly into maturity to re- 
tain the friendship of his pals; the 
Chinese child ‘made much of’ as a pet 
and subsequently neglected; the Mexi- 
can boy who fought himself into ap- 
preciative recognition; the Jewish and 
Italian gangs who could not come to- 
gether on anything except to ‘beat up 
the niggers’; the five-year-old in the 
Baltimore street-car; the innumerable 
children frightened with accounts of 
‘black men’ and pictures of bloodthirsty 
savages; children often crippled in 
mind and future experience by propa- 
gandist tools wielded for the benefit 
of selfish interest. Generation after 
generation, we see them pass by—chil- 
dren who are given the stones of fic- 
titious stereotypes when they ask for 
the bread of knowledge, children of all 
races and all nationalities made the po- 
tential cannon-fodder of future wars 


THE Crisis 





















































‘ult 
od- 

ate 

ot 

ing 

ch: 

ship 

ing 

and 

{olt 

The 

iph: 

it is 

we 

and 

Tar- 
leci- 

the 

was 

the 

orth 

who 
) re- 

the 
| pet 
Texi- 
) ap- 

and 
e to- 
it up 
| the 
rable ; 
ts of | 
irsty 
d in 
ropa- 
pnefit 
after 
hil- ! 
\ fic- 

for 
bf all 
le po- 
wars 


RISIS 


GU ww EE oe = “St een SU sen een eas VF = SN wS YS a ae = eo OO TT CH ot Cee Ow Oe we eww | "wa FF FF VS oS SS SS eS Oe Cee eS SS DA iO ble 











eit ora 














(a 








Pe 


THE N.A.A.C.P. BATTLE FRONT 
laches ahniainanninnnienis cet ea 


20TH YEAR TRIBUTES 

HAT the world thinks of the 

National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People pro- 
foundly matters to the continuance of 
its work. Standing for “the world”, 
are leaders in various professions and 
in cultural life. On the threshold of 
its Twentieth Anniversary Conference, 
in the midst of a campaign to raise 
$200,000 that its work might be car- 
ried forward and extended, the N. A. 
A. C. P. asked leaders in various parts 
of the world to say what they thought 
of its record. 


Dorothy Canfield Fisher: author 
“The Bent Twig’, “The Squirrel 
Cage”, “Rough Hewn”, and other 
novels, books of stories and essays: 

It would take a long time even to 
mention the various kinds of services 
rendered by the N. A. A. C. P. both 
to the Negro race in the United States 
and to the whole of our country. In 
addition to remarkably successful help 
given in material obvious ways (like 
the securing of good lawyers for Ne- 
groes in various parts of the country 
in need of such protection) it has done 
much intangible good in helping to 
raise the problems of race relations up 
on a higher and (relatively) more civ- 
ilized plane. 

But in my opinion its greatest 
achievement has been a spiritual one, 
the creative help it has given to the 
growth of an element of life among 
voung colored people which I wish our 
young white people had—I refer to the 
s.owth of a sort of proud solidarity 
of almost mystical unity as a race 
which gives a startling dramatic value 
to the life of the individuals compos- 
ing it. Young colored people seem to 
me to feel, more and more, a collective 
shame over the misdeeds of any mem- 
ber of their race and a splendid, stir- 
ring collective pride in the success of 
their brothers and sisters. An increas- 
ingly large number of young colored 
boys and girls, men and women, have 
before them, very plain and concrete, 
a fine impersonal goal, which dignifies 
every life striving towards it. They 
feel that their race is on trial (would 
that every race felt this, for it is true 
of course of every one of us!) And 
this knowledge is a stimulant to the 
best sort of ambition. Every fine deed, 
intelligent thought, idealistic action, is 


November, 1929 


so much more proof of the worth of 
the race as a whole. 

They truly believe and act upon an 
axiom to which only lip service is 
given by white peuple, the old saying 
that “by weakness of one we are all 
lessened, by the strength of one we are 
all strengthened.” The N. A. A. C. 
P. has done a notable service to all 
our common fatherland, so greatly in 
need of such impersonal breadth of 
view, by fostering so successfully this 
noble sort of race solidarity. 


Rt. Rev. William F. Faber, Bishop 
of Montana: 

I esteem it a privilege to have part 
in the promotion of the great cause for 
which the National Association for the 
Advancement of Colored People was 
organized; and I feel thankful for the 
twenty years of its activities. The 
wrongs against which it exists to pro- 
test, are wrongs not only to a race, 
but wrongs to our boasted democracy, 
and what concerns me most, wrongs 
to the Religion we profess and to Him 
whom we worship. The least we can 
do is to keep them before the Amer- 
ican public until a national conscience 
is awakened. May the Association live 
to labor until that day arrives, be it 
twenty years more, or a hundred and 
twenty. 


Waldo Frank, novelist, author 
“The Re-Discovery of America”, 
“Rahab”, “City Block” and other 
works: 


It seems almost too easy—too ob- 
vious—to write an appreciation of the 
N. A. A. C. P. How can one not 
acknowledge the splendid and fruitful 
battle it has waged for decency, for 
fairness, for spiritual uprightness 
against the downward pressure of the 
American mob? How not admire the 
courage and calibre of the men who 
have led in this fight? 

I think, however, that what I like 
most about your organization and its 
activity, is that its special field—the 
welfare of Negroes—has been far 
transcended by the universal spirit in 
which you have worked. It is true, 
of course, that you have fought for 
Negroes, as Negroes and as friends of 
the Negro: but this you have done in 
such a way that you have emerged es- 
sentially as Americans and as men, and 
your work has been quite as essentially 
for America and for mankind. You 





have demonstrated the truth that only 
through a specific particular action can 
a man reach the general and the uni- 
versal. 

I salute the calm impersonality of 
every one of you whom I have had the 
privilege to meet; the noble and un- 
self-assertive acceptance by you of your 
lot as Americans and as citizens of a 
harried world. In their specific prob- 
lems and through specific work, you 
have helped your colored brothers 
enormously, of course. But by your 
spirit and morale, you have helped all 
Americans and all America, no less. 


Melville J. Herskovits, Assistant 
Professor of Anthropology North- 
western University, Author “The 
American Negro’, etc.: 

As a more or less detached observer 
of Negro life in this country and of the 
friction between Negroes and Whites, 
it has been forced upon me that one 
of the reasons the Negro is under the 
handicap of as much discrimination as 
he is, is because he has never learned 
to fight back. Though my association 
with Negroes in this country has been 
in the course of Anthropological re- 
search, I have again and again encoun- 
tered situations in which only the re- 
fusal to undergo an embarrassing sit- 
uation rather than give up a right was 
the cause of the Negro’s being de- 
prived of that right. 

It is only the N. A. A. C. P. who 
have realized the fact I have pointed 
out above, and it is undoubtedly due 
to their willingness to endure unpleas- 
ant situations and fight for a right 
rather than weakly give it up that has 
resulted, in large measure, in making 
the general White population not quite 
as ruthless in overriding the Negroes. 
It is to be hoped that the N. A. A. C. 
P. will continue with as much fervor 
in the future as in the past to insist 
that the Negro be regarded as the full- 
fledged afid adult human being he is. 
To the extent that they do this I am 
sure there will be a general increase 
in the self-respect of the Negroes and 
the respect which the general White 
population will have for its Negro 
group. 


L. T. Hobhouse, distinguished so- 
ciologist and editor, England: 

I am very glad to respond to your 
appeal for a few words of appreciation 


(Will you please turn to page 392) 
379 





EUROPE AND AMERICA 


@ In the 13th National Champion- 
ships held by the American Tennis 
Association at Bordentown, New Jer- 
sey, last August, there were 158 en- 
tries in the Singles alone, and on Sat- 
urday afternoon 3,000 people from 36 
states watched the games. The results 
crowned the following champions: E. 
G. Brown of Chicago, Men’s Singles ; 
Miss Ora Washington of Chicago, 
Women’s Singles; Saitch of New York 
and Smith of Pennsylvania, Men’s 
Doubles; the Misses Ballard and 
Washington, Women’s Doubles. 


@ Paul Robeson went to London 
four years ago to act in “The Emperor 
Jones”. He stayed to make a reputa- 
tion by his singing in “Show Boat”. 
He was suspended by the Actors’ 
Equity Association because he refused 
to return and keep a contract with 
Caroline Reagan. This suspension has 
now been cancelled, but Mr. Robeson 
is apparently faced with two possibili- 
ties: to star in London in a great re- 
vival of Shakespeare’s “Othello”, or to 





make a concert tour in the United 
States under F. C. Coppicus. 
@ The Second World Congress 


against Imperialism held at Frankfort- 
on-Main, Germany, July 21st, 1929, 
had 500 delegates and lasted one week 
with many preliminary conferences. 
One such conference was held in Lon- 
don and was attended by Roger N. 
Baldwin, William Pickens, and several 
members of Parliament. All contin- 
ents and sections of the world were 
represented. 


@ A League for Independent Politi- 
cal Action has been formed with Pro- 





fessor John Dewey of Columbia as 
Chairman and a National Committee 
of 100. Among the Vice Presidents 
are: Zona Gale, Professor Paul Doug- 
lass of the University of Chicago, W. 
E. B. Du Bois, and Devere Allen. 

@ The Rosenwald Fund has under- 
taken to spend $500,000 in providing 
library service for any county in the 
South which will furnish partial sup- 
port during the first five years, and take 
entire responsibility at the end of that 
time. Both white and colored people 
will benefit from the proposal. A con- 
ference on Negro libraries was held by 
the American Library Association in 
February, 1928, and the matter of Ne- 
gro libraries was stressed. 

@ In Kansas City and Philadelphia, a 
Negro policeman has been made a ser- 
geant—the first cases in those cities. 


THE EAST 
@ The International Ladies’ Garment 
Union of New York is making a spe- 
cial drive to unionize four thousand 
colored women who work in the dress 
shops of New York. These women 
earn only from $8 to $12 a week, while 
union workers receive from $26 to $44. 
@ William G. Holly, a young col- 
ored man, is Superintendent and Chem- 
ist of the Imperial Paint Company, 
Long Island City, a company which 
manufactures paints, varnishes,  lac- 
quers and industrial finishes. He was 
originally research chemist, and finally, 
when a vacancy occurred, was made 
Plant Manager. The work involves 
general superintendence and plant man- 
agement, laboratory direction, develop- 
ment of new products, and general 


me 
_ ALONG THE COLOR LINE | 


me 


manufacture and production control. 
Holly has held this position for two 
years and during that time the plant 
has almost doubled in size, equipment 
and product. He has a staff of two 
laboratory assistants, three foremen, a 
mechanic, and twenty employees, all of 
whom are white. He is a member of 
the New York and New Jersey Var- 
nish and Paint Plant Managers’ As- 
sociation. 

@ Dr. P. L. Hawkins, who has prac- 
ticed Medicine in Atlantic City for 
thirty years is dead. He was a mem- 
ber of the Board of Education, City 
Health officer and prominent in Y. M. 
C. A. and fraternal circles. He is the 
brother of John R. Hawkins of Wash- 


ington. 
@ Mr. and Mrs. Levi Taylor of 
Wrightsville, Pennsylvania, recently) 


celebrated their 5lst wedding anni- 
versary. Mr. Taylor for fifty-three 
years has been a clerk at Heppenstall’s 
grocery store. 

@ Herbert Corey, a columnist in the 
Brooklyn Daily Times, has been in- 
formed that Parham, the colored cadet 
at West Point, is being treated thus 
by the young American gentlemen who 
are his fellow students: 

“No one looks at him or speaks to 
him, except when compelled to do so. 
There are two vacant places to his 
right at mess table and one vacant to 
his left. He is not hazed or mistreated 
or insulted. He is marooned.” 

@ Lincoln Hospital, New York was 
founded to serve Negroes. It early be- 
gan the training of colored nurses and 
still keeps this work up, having re- 
cently built a new and commodious 
nurses’ home, where nurses will be 





N. A. A. C. P. Popularity Contest Winners 
Miss R. Jacobs Miss D. Evans Mrs. E. Hicks Mrs. A. B. Harris Mrs. Jessie Browne 
3rd Prize Ist Prize Ist Prize 2nd Prize 3rd Prize 
Columbus, Ohio Columbus, Ohio Newark, Ohio Columbus, Ohio 


380 


Newark, Ohio 
TueE Crisis 








rol. 
two 
lant 
lent 
two 
1, a 
1 of 
r of 
J ar- 


As- 


rac- 

tor 
1em- 
City 

M. 
. the 
‘ash- 


F ot 
ntly 
inni- 
h ree 
rall’s 


1 the 
1 in- 
cadet 
thus 
who 


Ks to 
O 50. 
» his 
nt to 
eated 


- Was 
ly be- 
; and 
7 re- 
dious 


ll be 


Ne 


Crisis 











Teachers and Students at the Lincoln Secretarial School, New York City 


trained in connection with Columbia 
University. On the other hand, Lin- 
coln has always doggedly refused to al- 
low any courtesies to Negro physicians, 
lagging behind other city hospitals in 
this respect. 

@ In the annual oratorical contest of 
the colored Elks, there were 280 dis- 
trict contests, 40 state contests, and 6 
regional contests. In all, 1,844 persons 
took part. The winners in the regional 
contests each received a _ four-year 
scholarship of $250 a year. In the final 
contest, which took place during the 
Elks’ Convention at Atlantic City, the 
regional winners contested. ‘The First 
Prize was $500 in cash, and there were 
5 other prizes of $100 each. The win- 
ners were the following: William Har- 
vey, 3rd, of Philadelphia, First Prize. 
The other 5 prizes went to: Seaton 
Manning of Boston, Catherine Wise- 
man of Detroit, Eveyln Hill of Co- 
lumbia, South Carolina, Elmer House 
of St. Louis, and Dotie Bridgeport of 
Athens, Alabama. 

@ The ranking scholar of West Vir- 
ginia State College was Alice Cabell 
Curtis who received her degree summa 
cum laude. 


W. J. Harvey, II 


November, 1929 


Mrs. I. G. Young 
Page 383 


@ Hubert T. Delaney, Assistant 
United States Attorney, is the regular 
Republican nominee for Congress in 
the 2lst District, New York. He is 
the son of Bishop Delaney of North 
Carolina and a graduate of the Col- 
lege of the City of New York and the 
Law School of New York University. 
@ Alfred N. Heinsheimer of New 
York, at his death left nearly three 
million dollars to twenty-five institu- 
tions. The National Association for 
the Advancement of Colored People 
received $2,500. 

@ The Reverend D. L. T. Robinson 
is pastor of Bethel A. M. E. Church, 
New Bedford, and has recently been 
made Chaplain of the New Bedford 
Post Number I, of the American 
Legion. Mr. Robinson was born in 
Mississippi and served overseas with 
the A. E. F. 

@ Edythe Taylor is the first colored 
girl to be appointed teacher in the pub- 
lic schools of Hartford. She has been 
assigned to the Fourth Grade, Kemp 
School. Her father is a graduate of 
Howard University. 

@ Charles Becker, a colored man, 








Israel Beal 
Page 383 


taught Penmanship in the Fall River, 


Dr. A. Savage 
Page 384 Page 384 


Massachusetts, High School for many 
years. He was retired last June for 
age. 

@ The annual Eastern Conference of 
the Chinese Students’ Alliance of 
America met at John Hopkins Uni- 
versity in September. 

@ Dr. Charles H. Marshall, for- 
merly a member of the Board of Edu- 
cation of the District of Columbia, and 
a member of the faculty of the Howard 
Medical School, is dead at Washing- 
ton. 

@ Miss Nell E. Williams graduated 
from the Howard University Law 
School in 1928 with honors. In 1929, 
she received the degree of LL. M. 
from New York University. 

@ It has been discovered that Jacob 
H. Hollander, a well-known economist 
R. B. Keyser, President of the Board 
of Trustees of John Hopkins Univer- 
sity, John D. Harlem, Secretary, and 
others of Baltimore are among the sign- 
ers of a neighborhood agreement to 
“forever bar Negroes from residence 
on Eutaw Place,” 1800 and 1900 
blocks “except as servants.” The 
agreement was negotiated in 1924. 


SOUTH EAST 


@ The Federation of Colored Cath- 
olics held their Fifth Annual Confer- 
ence in Baltimore September Ist and 
2nd. Dr. T. W. Turner of Hampton 
is President, and during the sessions a 
determined demand was made for more 
Negro priests. It was answered by 
one white priest with the ancient lie 
that Negroes “did not want their own 
priests.” In his opening address, Dr. 
Turner stated that the number of Ne- 
gro Catholics was decreasing and that 
the reason was the lack of Negro 
priests. The Federation without a 
dissenting voice urged the appointment 
of Negro priests and the abolition of 
all discrimination in Catholic schools. 


Dr. Turner was re-elected President 
and H. M. Smith, Secretary. 





A. Casely Hayford 


381 














ee wie 
Page 383 


H. T. Delaney Dr. 
Page 381 


@ The Inter-racial Commission of 
Maryland reported the following cur- 
rent average annual salaries for teach- 
ers in the state: 


White Colored 
High School $1,534 $908 
Elementary 1,126 586 


@ John C. Wright was born in Vir- 
ginia in 1883; educated in New Jer- 
sey, and at Oberlin. He has taught at 
St. Paul, Virginia, Tuskegee Institute, 
Florida A. and M. College, Edward 
Waters College, and the Bethune- 
Cookman College. During the war, 
he was Y. M. C. A. Secretary at the 
front and was sent back to America to 
help in the War Work Campaign. 
After the campaign he was _trans- 
ferred to the Army Educational Corps 
and made Supervisor of Instruction of 
colored troops at Beaune, France. Re- 
turning from France, he was for two 
years Educational Secretary of the 
Y. M.C.A., New York, finally return- 
ing to Tuskegee as Assistant Director 
of the Academic Department. He has 
held various educational offices and con- 
tributed to educational journals. He 
is now president of the Joseph K. 


Brick School, N. C. 

@ Doctor R. N. Dett, and Ernest 
Hayes of the staff of the Hampton 
School of Music, have returned from 
a summer’s study at the School of Mu- 
sic, Fontainbleau. They are planning 
a foreign tour for the celebrated 
Hampton choir. 


@ Dr. Peter James Bryant, for thirty 
years Pastor of the Wheat Street Bap- 
tist Church, Atlanta, Georgia, is dead. 
He was a well-known religious leader. 


@ Arthur P. Davis will teach Eng- 
lish the coming year at Virginia Union 
University. 

@ Last year the Reverend D. D. 
Crawford was in a railway wreck in 
Georgia and distinguished himself by 
his coolness in rescuing numbers of the 
injured. Much was said of his bravery 
in Southern white papers. 


382 


Temple 


I. C. Wright 


MIDDLE WEST 


@ In Gary, Indiana, Negroes have 
been denied entrance into the newest 
city park at 15th and Connecticut 
Street, in the heart of the black belt. 
@ Spencer C. Dickerson has been 
made Colonel of the 8th Illinois Regi- 
ment, Illinois National Guard, to suc- 
ceed Otis B. Duncan who has been 
dishonorably discharged. Dickerson 
was born in Texas, and is a graduate 
of Tillotson College, the University of 
Chicago, and Rush Medical College. 
He served with the Regiment over- 
seas. 

@ Miss Thelma Smith received the 
degree of Master of Arts at the Uni- 
versity of Chicago in August, 1929. 
She was elected to the Phi Beta Kappa. 
She is a native of St. Louis and re- 
turns there to teach. 

@ Two signs, “No Negroes allowed” 
have been posted on Lake Shore Drive 
at Siesta Road about five miles from 
Mt. Clemens, Michigan. Mt. Clem- 
ens is a suburb of Detroit and Lake 
Shore Drive is the main thoroughfare 
between the two. 

@ Over one hundred colored mail 
carriers and their wives from all parts 
of the country met last summer in 
Minneapolis to attend the conference 
of the National Association of Letter 
Carriers. 

@ George A. Singleton has received 
the degree of Master of Arts at Chi- 
cago University. 

@ The City Council of St. Paul has 
passed the following Minute with re- 
gard to the death of the late Minister 
to Liberia William T. Francis: 


Mr. Francis was a St. Paul product, 
a citizen of fine spirit, clean purpose and 
genuine devotion to the public good, held 
in high esteem by those who knew him. 
He fashioned his own career out of cour- 
age, determination and ability. Facing 
unusual handicaps he overcame them all 
by the quality of his character, and by 
single-handed struggle forced recognition 
of his worth. He won high honor on 
worth alone and earned a wide approval 


E. D. Crawford 
















































Miss N. E. Williams 
Page 381 


because he was sincere, kindly, human 
and gracious. 

At the time of his death he was on the 
threshold of a distinguished career, and 
assured of a commanding destiny among 
men. His governmental associates were 
open in their praise of his achievements 
Here in his home city, he was respected 
for what he was—a true brave man, 
gifted with vision, cheerful and uncom- 
plaining, and devoted to high aims. His 
untimely death is a tragic loss to his 
country and especially to his home com- 
munity. He leaves behind him the mem- 


ory of one who was unafraid of life, the 
example of victorious battle against all 


untoward circumstances. 


THE MIDDLE SOUTH 


@ In Montgomery, Alabama, last 
July, there was a serious building col- 
lapse of the Bullock Shoe store build- 
ing. Ella Brown, a colored elevato: 
operator in a neighboring store, stuck 
to her post and brought down scores of 
customers and employees. In her final 
dash to safety, she was struck by a 
heavy beam and received injuries and 
bruises. In the report of the disaster 
in the Montgomery Advertiser, no 
mention was made of the girl, and in 
the Journal, no mention was made on 
the front page but a small paragraph 
was carried on the third interior page. 
@ Four graduates of Meharry Medi- 
cal College took Part II of the nation- 
wide examinations given by the Na- 
tional Board of Medical Examiners. 
They were Dr. H. E. Hampton, Dr. 
I. B. B. Higgens, Dr. L. J. Hicks, and 
Dr. W. A. Mason. They all passed 
the examination. One of them, Dr. 
Hampton, attained the highest grade 
given, making a total credit of 208, 
out of 225. The next highest grade 
attained was 206. Candidates who 
take these examinations are drawn 
from all the medical schools and col- 
leges in the United States and Canada. 
Last year Dr. Hampton was among 
the first ten making the highest aver- 
age for Part I. Dr. Higgins made a 
grade of 201 and in the examination 


THE Crisis 


<——_ ee 


| 
| 




















Iman 


1 the 

and 
nong 
were 
nents 
ected 
man, 
com- 

His 
» his 
com- 
nem- 
>, the 
t all 


last 
- col- 
yuild- 
vatol 
stuck 
‘es of 
final 
by a 
> and 
saster 
, no 
nd in 
le on 
zraph 
page. 
Vedi- 
ation- 
Na- 
iners. 
oe 
;, and 
vassed 
Sea 
grade 
208, 
grade 
who 
lrawn 
d col- 
nada. 
mong 
aver- 
ade a 
nation 


CRISIS 












last year received the highest grade in 
Bacteriology. 

@ For colored readers there are 
ninety-five centers for the circulation 
of books for home use in forty-six 
buildings in Louisville, Ky., and Jef- 
ferson County. This includes two 
Carnegie branch buildings, one high 
school, fifteen stations and seventeen 
classroom collections in twenty-eight 
school buildings. There are 26,737 
volumes in the department. The cir- 
culation of books was 156,926 volumes, 
which was 10 per cent of the total 
circulation. 

@ Talledega College, Ala., in 1930- 
31, will offer a full major course in 
Physical Education, including gymnas- 
tics, swimming and dancing. W. H. 
Kindle, who has the dezree of Master 
of Physical Education from the Y. M. 
C. A. College at Springfield, Mass- 
achusetts, is at the head of the de- 
partment. 

@ New Orleans University granted 
the degree of Bachelor of Arts to ten 
candidates at the end of the summer 
session. 

@ At New Orleans, Joseph J. DeJoie, 
who has conducted a drug store in the 
city for more than twenty years, is 
dead. He was prominent in business 
and civic life. 

@ Fisk University awarded the de- 
gree of Bachelor of Arts to twenty- 
three graduates of the summer school. 
q J. M. Bond, Director of Physical 
Education in the Y. M. C. A, at Pitts- 
burgh for the last three years, has be- 
come State Director for the Colored 
Work of the Kentucky State Inter- 
racial Commission. He succeeds his 
father, the late James Bond. 


TRANS MISSISSIPPI 


q A bitter fight for education has 
been won in Missouri. Some years ago 
Nathan B. Young as President of 
Lincoln University, was re-organizing 
the institution into a first-class school. 
Governor Baker ousted him and then 
proceeded to put the institution into 
politics. When the present Governor 
Caulfield was elected, he swept out the 
whole Board of Curators and ap- 
pointed a new Board, with such per- 
sons as Charles Nagel, formerly Sec- 
retary of Commerce and Labor, and 
Mrs. Julia Childs Curtis. He also 
secured the largest appropriation yet 
made for the University from the leg- 
islature. The Board of Curators has 
re-appointed Nathan B. Young as 
President. 

@ The Fourth annual conference of 
Cooks and Waiters was held in St. 
Louis August 5th to 9th. 

@ Clarence Bacote of Kansas City, 
Missouri, has received the degree of 
Master of Arts from the University of 
Chicago. 


November, 1092¢ 
929 





@ Dr. Aaron A. McMillan of 
Omaha, Nebraska, formerly member of 
the Legislature, has gone as a Medical 
missionary to Angola, Portuguese 
West Africa. He is being sent by the 
American Board of Commissioners for 
Foreign Missions. 


SOUTH WEST 
@ Mrs. Ida Gertrude Young is a 
graduate of Paul Quinn College, 
‘Texas. She finished high school in her 
younger days; taught school; married; 
raised a family of six children, the old- 
est of whom graduated from college at 
Paul Quinn, and is now in Africa with 
his uncle. She has a son at Wilberforce 
and a daughter attending Paul Quinn. 


Street Sign, Detroit. 


Page 382 


Mrs. Young returned to Paul Quinn 
in the summer of 1925 and took up her 
college work, but was handicapped by 
the necessity of keeping her children 
in school. She took advantage of the 
summer schools until she reached her 
Junior year, and then attended the 
regular courses, finally graduating in 
1929. 

@ Last November, Judge Mann 
granted an injunction which gave the 
colored citizens in Arkansas the right 
to vote in primary elections. Recently, 
Chancellor Dodge has dissolved the in- 
junction. Three law firms have united 
to take this case to the highest courts, 
and colored people are raising a special 
defense fund. 

@ In a wreck of a Frisco Express 
train between Tulsa and Sherman, 
Texas, eleven Negroes were killed in 
the “Jim Crow car.” The “Jim Crow” 
car is always an old car put between 








the heavy engine and the new strong 
cars in the rear in which the white 
people ride. The Negro car was 
thrown up beside the overturned loco- 
motive which exploded and spread 
steam through the “Jim Crow” com- 
partment. This is a common occur- 
rence in Southern wrecks. 

@ Cleave Williams, a nineteen-year 
old Negro boy, was lynched at Cal- 
vert, Texas, recently. He was ac- 
cused of writing a note to a white girl, 
although this is not supposed to be the 
real reason. 


PACIFIC COAST 


@ Miss Marian Anderson has been 
singing on the Pacific Coast where she 
appeared as soloist with the American 
Philharmonic Orchestra. The Seattle 
Daily Times says that Miss Ander- 
son’s “opulent contralto which she uses 
with fine intelligence moved the audi- 
ence to an ovation.” The Star calls 
her “the finest of living contralto 
singers.” 

@ Israel Beal was a colored pioneer 
of Redlands, California, where he died 
recently at the age of 81. Born a 
slave in Virginia in 1848, he marched 
with Sherman to the Sea and then 
eventually came to California by way 
of Panama to labor in the mines. In 
1874, Mr. Beal bought twenty acres 
where he lived and raised his family 
and acted as teamster and rancher and 
took various contracts. He had much 
to do with the founding and building 
up of the city of Redlands. 

@ Ruth J. Temple was born in Mis- 
sissippi and educated in California. She 
received her degree in Medicine and 
is now on the staff of the Maternity 
Division of the Los Angeles City 
Health Board and also of the White 
Memorial Hospital. Her practice is 
limited exclusively to obstetrics and 
gynecology. During the recent meet- 
ing of the National Medical Associa- 
tion in Newark, Dr. Temple gave two 
demonstrations. She is especially ex- 
pert on a new form of the Cesarean 
operation which is greatly reducing 
mortality. 

@ The Oregon Journal had a lead- 
ing editorial on the work of Mrs. E. 
D. Cannady in race relations. She has 
held front-porch musical recitals, inter- 
racial teas, and given addresses and 
exhibits. The Portland Council of 
Churches is asking for the Harmon 
Award for her. 

@ It is reported that Gloria Swan- 
son’s last picture, “Queen Kelley”, has 
been banned by Will Hayes, because it 
featured a colored priest. 


WEST INDIES 
@ A school History of England by 


C. R. L. Fletcher and Rudyard Kip- 
ling, published in 1911, has been 


383 


banned from government schools in 
British Guiana on account of the fol- 
lowing paragraph against which the 
Negroes complained : 

“The prosperity of the West Indies, 
once our richest possession, has very 
largely declined since slavery was abol- 
ished in 1833. There is little market 
for their chief products, and yet there 
is a large population, mainly black, 
descended from slaves imported in pre- 
vious centuries, or of mixed black and 
white race: lazy, vicious, and incapable 
of any serious improvement, or of work 
except under compulsion. 

“In such a climate a few bananas will 
sustain the life of a Negro quite suff- 
ciently. Why should he work to get more 
than this? He is quite happy and quite 
useless, and spends any extra wages he 
may earn upon finery.” 


EAST AFRICA 


@ An Indian Deputation has been 
visiting in East Africa and returned to 
Bombay, and will shortly proceed to 
England to lay their complaints be- 
fore the British Government. They 
complain of segregation, inability to 
buy land and disfranchisement. 

@ It is reported that the slave trade 
still flourishes in Arabia- and on the 
Red Sea, and that more than 2,000 
slaves from Africa are sold there every 
year. Forty thousand Jews in Yemen 
are said also to be virtually slaves. 

@ The present Sultan of Zanzibar, 
Sayed bin Harib, has only one wife 
and a son Ali. His palace is Bet-el- 
ajab, or House of Wonders, and is the 
scene of many social functions. When 
he gives a ball, Arab and Negro mer- 
chants appear and white people from 
the surrounding colonies. Conven- 
tional English food is served to the 
whites and great silver dishes of curry 
and rice with cutglass bowls of man- 
goes and fruits to the Mohammedans. 
Finally, the Sultan’s coffee is passed 
around and then the dance begins. The 
Sultan makes a magnificent figure in 
his robes of gold. His son wears a 
modern dinner jacket. Neither of 
them dance. The Sultana looks on 
from a screened balcony. 


WEST AFRICA 


@ Henry Carr, formerly Director of 
Education at Lagos, Nigeria, West 
Africa, was made an Officer of the 
British Empire in the last birthday 
honors. 

@ Archibald Casley Hayford is a 
Master of Arts of Cambridge Uni- 
versity, England, and Barrister-at-Law 
and Solicitor in the Supreme Court of 
the Gold Coast, British West Africa. 
He has visited in America and is the 
son of Honorable Casely Hayford, 
M. B. E. 

@ Tremont Hospital of Ntondo, Bel- 
gian Congo, was opened December 5, 
1928, and was founded mainly on a 


384 





large gift made by Tremont Temple, 
Boston. 

@ At Douala, in the Cameroons, 
there is a fine central hospital built of 
brick and costing to date $55,000. 

@ Dr. Agnes Savage of Nigeria has 
completed her medical work at Edin- 
brough University at the age of 23. 
She is the first native colored woman 
to qualify for work in West Africa. 
@ At the Bolenge Hospital, Belgian 
Congo, 10,489 patients were treated 
in 1928. Native assistants gave 7,834 
injections. 

@ King Albert-of Belgium has estab- 
lished the Congo National Park. It 
consists of 800,000 acres, between 
Lakes Kivu and Edward. It will be a 
refuge for a larger wild beast, and 
hunting is to be prohibited. It is un- 
fortunate there is not a similar refuge 
for the Negro in the Belgian Congo. 
@ An English Knighthood has been 
bestowed upon Nana Sir Emmanuel 
Mate-kole, K.B., K.M.A.C., M.L.C. 
Sir Emmanuel is the paramount chief 
of Manyah Krobo, Gold Coast, Brit- 
ish West Africa. 

@ One of the great problems of West 


Africa are the five thousand Syrian 
merchants. The Negroes complain bit- 
terly of their oppression and cheating 
but the English defend them as they 
buy large amounts of English goods. 
There is a strong local demand for 
their exclusion. 

@ The new English Director of Edu- 
cation for Nigeria, British West 
Africa, tried to abolish the Oxford and 
Cambridge examinations and inaugu- 
rate a “Nigeria school certificate.” The 
Negroes protested and Mr. Hussey has 
not only withdrawn his proposals but 
promised in the futurg to discuss all 
contemplated changes. 

@ The foundation stone of the new 
Supreme Court building, Accra, Gold 
Coast, British West Africa, was laid 
August 16th in the presence of the 
Governor and judges. A sum of 
$500,000 has been set apart to pay for 
the new building. It will contain 
three court rooms, each seating three 
hundred persons. 


SOUTH AFRICA 


@ Professor Leo Frobenius, who has 
(Will you please turn to page 394) 





The New Nurses’ Home, Lincoln Hospital, New York City. Page 380 


THE Crisis 














OQ. eS bee 


ad 









for 


lu- 
est 
nd 
ruU- 


has 
ut 


all 


ew 
old 
aid 
the 

of 
for 
ain 
ree 


has 
4) 

















 YOUTHPORT | 





For Juniors of the N. A. A. C. P. 





Errig LEE NEwsoMe, Critic 





EDITORIAL 


UMAS the elder mentions a pic- 

turesque incident in the life of 
his father. The father as a boy in Saint 
Domingo was enjoying the out-of- 
doors. But unfortunately the log upon 
which he supposed himself to be stand- 
ing proved to be an alligator. It moved. 
The mulatto Dumas began running for 
his life and the alligator pursued. 

“To the right, little sir! To the 
left, little sir!’ cried the sympathetie 
voice of a Negro onlooker who was ad- 
vising the father of d’Artagnan’s 
creator to take a zig-zag course, a route 
that an alligator loathes. But the boy 
was delighted to follow these direc- 
tions. And the zigzag pace led to a 
most satisfactory ending. 

The Junior N. A. A. C. P. page in 
starting its course may veer “to the 
right, little sir, to the left, little sir” 
till it ultimately gets the sure trend. 
The path that it desires is a short cut 
to youth of the present. It would meet 
them half way. 

The young people interested in the 
National Association for the Advance- 
ment of Colored People are by this very 
interest understood to be possessed of 
racial clear-sightedness and minds that 
instinctively go toward high promise. 
Such is the blessing of being part of a 
race that sees before it shimmering hill- 
tops and not the valleys on the other 
side that are the portion of peoples who 
have known pinnacles. 


REMEMBER THE TREES 
HIS reminds us of Bjérnson’s story 


of the juniper, oak and fir that 
strove to cover a mountain. But no 


sooner would they get a footing on the | 


mountainside than they were washed 
downward. 

After years of struggling persever- 
ance the trees reached the summit, only 
to look back with a gasp. For lo! they 
found the tableland already clothed 
with oak, with fir and with juniper. 

Our reaching a point of meeting for 
the interchange of ideas may mean 
some such revelation as came to the 
trees when they arrived on the table- 
land. And the talents and traits ad- 
mired in other races will be found to 
exist within our own. 

YOuTHPoRT offers space for and in- 


November, 1929 


vites contributions from young readers 
of the Crisis. And they are found in 
various parts of the world. Through 
this page—an international forum— 
junior friends of the Crisis may come 
in touch with a great organization and 
with one another. 

The critic of this organ of the Na- 
tional Association for the Advance- 
ment of Colored People plans to extend 
the Junior Page—or perhaps two pages 
—so as to include contributions from 
young Americans, West Indians and 
from French, Portuguese, Italian, 
Spanish and English speaking Negroes. 
A pretty broad field surely. The pro- 
gram of this page lists interesting con- 
tests with attractive awards. 

When every Crisis reader between 
the ages of fourteen and twenty-one 
realizes that he has it within his power 
to play a vigorous part in the projects 
of a lively magazine he'll roll up his 
sleeves. Send stories, sketches or letters 
of not exceeding four hundred words to 
“Youthport’, THe Crisis, 69 Fifth 
Avenue, New York. Next month we 
shall deal further with the brisk con- 
tests. Begin planning your contribu- 
tion. 





NEWS 
HE BERLIN TAGEBUCH of 
the 24th of August, 1929, has this 
article: 

“A band of American athletes has 
for several weeks been holding exhi- 
bitions in Germany; and everywhere, 
and lately in Berlin, have aroused great 
furore. Above all, it was the marvelous 
sprinter, Tolan, who broke record after 


record and raised the reputation of 
American sport to the very highest 
point. One would have thought that 
his companions would praise and spoil 
him; would be heart and soul with him 
and inordinately proud of him. Noth- 
ing of the sort happened. On the con- 
trary, they would not sleep in the same 
room with him; they would not eat at 
the same table; they would not travel 
with him on the same train. Indeed, 
they insulted him in so horrible and 
despicable a manner that it brought 
tears to the eyes of poor Tolan, when 
the matter was mentioned. 

This Tolan is—excuse the hard 
word—a Negro; and his companions 
in sport are—excuse the even harder 
word—pure [00% “Mayflower gen- 
tlemen”. They are, as sportsmen, well- 
known to be marvelously fair! and 
sport itself is a well-known method of 
uniting peoples. But “you must not 
forget that Negroes used to be slaves 
and that for us they are always slaves,” 
explain these grandchildren of Abra- 
ham Lincoln. 


LETTERS 
Richmond College 
Cape Coast 
Gold Coast 


West Africa 
-_— EDITOR of the “Crisis” 


Sir: 

Enclosed you will find Postal Order 
of eight shillings and sixpence for- which 
please enroll me as a subscriber of your 
interesting newspaper. I have also en- 
(Will you please turn to page 394) 





Students of Richmond College, Gold Coast, Africa 








Fostacfe 


“W 


TWENTY YEARS 
HE October number of THE 
Crisis completed 19 years of 
existence for this magazine. This pres- 
ent issue is the first copy of our T'wen- 
tieth Anniversary. 

Founded by the present Editor in 
November, 1910 at 20 Vesey Street, 
New York, this periodical has for a 
fifth of a century been the official organ 
ot the N. A. A. C. P., and an out- 
standing interpreter of the thought and 
aspiration, the deeds and movements 
of 12 million Americans and of untold 
other millions of Negro descent the 
world over. Its judgment and policy 
some may applaud and some criticize 
but its sincerity and honesty, its un- 
purchaseable courage and- its clear and 
forceful ideas few can gainsay. 

With imperturable determination 
and unblinking vision, THE CrIsIs 
faces a future big with possibilities and 
crying perhaps as never before for wide 
knowledge, honest judgment, sound 
logic and fearless exposition. The re- 
lation of the white to the dark world 
approaches daily a more critical stage. 
It is inextricably bound up with the 
problems of peace and war, and war 
today is the key to economic reform, 
the abolition of poverty, the spread of 
intelligence, the blossoming of art and 
human happiness. 

To all these problems, there is no 
quick and flippant, easy and complete 
answer. But there are answers and 
solutions, facts and measurements, 
which the world’s press and periodicals 
will ignore and misunderstand because 
they despise ““Chinks” and hate “Nig- 
gers’. Here is the field—the unfilled 
and yawning field for THe Crisis. 

Tue Crisis now as ever will avoid 
extremes of partisanship but this will 
de no excuse for fighting reform sim- 
ply because it is unpopular or un- 
profitable or not defending institutions 
and policies whose only offence is their 
age. 

THE Crisis will exist as long as the 
intelligence and wisdom of its readers 
will its existence. It will cease pub- 
lication when a magazine of this type 
is not longer wanted or needed. 


RECOGNITION 


WO incidents show the growing 
influence of the N. A. A. C. P. in 
this land despite its unpopular cause. 
When a great lawyer and philanthro- 


386 






Dear Mr. Du Bois, 


pist died recently and was buried with 
the pomp of world-wide mourning in 
New York, along with the honorary 
pall-bearers, who included Governor 
and Mayor, millionaire and merchant 


prince, social reformer, artist and 
writer, appeared the chief executive of- 
ficial of the N. A. A. C. P. as fitting 
representative of one of the great forces 
of America. 


When it was pointed out to the 
Biennial Conference of Pacific Rela- 
tions then meeting in Hawaii that the 
American Negro had a logical right to 
be represented as being the element in 
America most actually interested in the 
future development of the Darker 
Races ot the Pacific, our request was 
ignored. This year at the Third Bien- 
nial, the N. A. A. C. P. is chosen as 
the appropriate organization to send to 
Japan its Secretary as a member of the 
American delegation. 

The world moves 





The Fifth Pan African Congress 
will take place in the city of Tunis, 
French North Africa, December 
23, 24 and 25, 1929, under the 
Presidency of M. Gratien Candace, 
French Deputy from Guadeloupe. 

The success of this Congress will 
depend almost entirely upon the 
American delegation. To date 34 
American Negroes have agreed to 
take the trip in a body, leaving on 
the beautiful, modern and well- 
appointed steamship, Milwaukee, 
Saturday, November 30th, and re- 
turning to New York, Thursday, 
January 30th. Six or more Ameri- 
can Negroes will join the party en 
route. The all inclusive cost of the 
trip will be $965 per person. 

If there are any persons who are 
interested in this trip, they may 
write the Secretary of the Con- 
gress, care of THE Crisis, for fur- 
ther information. 





EO Pu Bort 










Thank you very much for the copies of “The Crisis” which 
you have sent to me. I shall look through them at once and 
know that I shall be greatly interested in which I find there. 

As to an article, I am sadly afraid that the great pressure 
which is upon me at present will make it impossible for me to 
send you anything to show how interested I am in the position 
of the coloured people in the world. 


J. Ramsay Macdonald. 


MARSHALL 
OMETIMES we Negroes speak as 


though we were carrying on our 
fight for the recognition of our man- 
hood and political and social rights 
alone and unaided by our white fellow 
citizens. But, of course, we do not 
mean to say this. Such a task would 
be impossible. From the beginnning, 
our struggle in the United States would 
have been unsuccessful had it not been 
for those white friends who saw the 
vision of a common humanity and who 
helped realize it. 


American Jews have been especially 
prominent in this work. We call to 
mind Jacob Schiff, Julius Rosenwald 
and many others. But above all, at 
this time, we remember the unselfish 
and invaluable work of Louis Mar- 
shall. This great constitutional law- 
yer repeatedly turned aside from his 
appointed tasks and his lucrative prac- 
tice to give time and counsel to the 
National Association for the Advance- 
ment of Colored People. He consid- 
ered the cause of Negro freedom to be 
the cause of human freedom, and he 
helped accordingly. His death is a 
mighty loss for the American Negro. 


MYRON ADAMS 


HE retirement of Myron Adams 

from the presidency of Atlanta 
University ought not to pass without a 
word. Dr. Adams is one of the last of 
that band of crusaders who came South 
after the war to educate the Negro. 
They met at first deep derision; then 
high praise; and then forgetfulness. In 
the last period, their difficulties have 
been enormous, and yet, if higher edu- 


THE Crisis 


A a me fF 





k as 
our 
Jan- 
rhts 
low 
not 
yuld 
ing, 
yuld 


been 


who 


dams 
‘lanta 
out a 
ast of 
South 
legro. 
- then 
s. In 

have 
r edu- 


CRISIS 


a 






cation of the American Negro has tri- 
umphed, it is because of the fact that 
men like Myron Adams stuck to their 
jobs, even when threatened with star- 
vation. 

Atlanta University in 1887 had but 
14 college students; in 1919 it had 
50; and last year it had 300. In the 
last nine years, Dr. Adams has fought 
to keep the finances of the institution 
balanced and he has succeeded in pre- 
senting to President Hope a plant of 
55 acres of land, fairly adequate build- 
ings, and an endowment of $328,000, 
nearly all of which has been raised dur- 
ing his administration. ‘There is an 
indebtedness which amounts to only 
$14,000. This has been accomplished 
in spite of the withdrawal of help from 
the General Education Board, the crti- 
cism of the trustees and of the white 
people of Georgia; and of the standard- 


izing agencies. It has been a hard 
fight. 
Atlanta University has had four 


presidents: Edmund Ware, the first, 
was the man of vision who founded it 
in 1867. Horace Bumstead, was the 
man who defended the Negro college 
for twenty years. The last twenty 
years which has made Atlanta Univer- 
sity, and the college idea accepted has 
been the work partly of young Edward 
Ware prematurely dead, but mainly 


of Myron Winslow Adams. 


THE PITTSBURGH COURIER 


HREE years ago in the Pittsburgh 

Courier of October 9, 1926, oc- 
curred an article with headlines which 
in effect accused the officials of the N. 
A. A. C. P. of misappropriation of 
funds, particularly with regard to the 
donations of the American Fund for 
Public Service. 

Since that time, by articles in THE 
Crisis, by releases to the press and by 
public speeches, the N. A. A. C. P. 
has proven to the public that the 
writer of this article was entirely mis- 
taken and. that the facts were not as 
represented ; that, on the contrary, the 
funds of the N. A. A. C. P. had al- 
ways been spent with the greatest care 
and utmost publicity. 

We are glad at last to be able to 
print the following letters which ap- 
peared on the first page of the Pitts- 
burgh Courier, Saturday, September 
14, 1929: 

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
September 1, 1929. 

“T regret very much the appearance 
ot the article in the Pittsburgh Courier 
of October 9, 1926. I do not believe 
its accusations and if I had seen the 
article before it appeared it never 
would have been published.” 

(Signed) Robt. L. Vann. 


November, 1929 












New York, N. Y. 
September 1, 1929. 
“IT have read the above statement of 
Mr. Vann and I accept it in the spirit 
in which it is given and the incident is 
hereby forgotten.” 
(Signed) W. E. B. Du Bois. 


New York, N. Y. 
September 1, 1929. 
“I have read Mr. Vann’s statement. 
I accept his word, and therefore with- 
draw what I said about him personally 
in my address at Pittsburgh, October 
19, 1926. I regret the whole incident 
as unfortunate and am happy to see it 
closed.” 


(Signed) James Weldon Johnson. 


THE NEGRO IN POLITICS 


HE political situation of the Amer- 
ican Negro this fall has many 
anomalies, contradictions and encour- 
agements. A white Southerner has 
been made Chairman of the Republi- 
can National Committee. He will un- 
doubtedly do what he can to eliminate 
the Negroes from political activity in 
the South. If he is successful, there 
will grow up in the South two parties 
dominated by white men. This alarms 
some Negroes and certain of their 
friends. ‘THE Crisis is not alarmed. 
If these are two real parties and not 
merely one party with two faces, then 
they will need votes; and the more 
progressive their program is, the greater 
will be their need. This will be the 
Negroes’ opportunity. 

But this means that the Negro must 
become opportunist in politics. No area 
illustrates this better than Harlem. 
Black Harlem cares nothing for politi- 
cal labels. Candidates may be marked 
Democrat, Republican, Socialist,— 
Harlem votes for the candidate. More- 
over, it votes very largely for local 
reasons. It will support Mayor 
Walker, not because he is the best can- 
didate. He is not. Norman Thomas, 
the Socialist candidate, is by long odds 
the best man running. But he has no 
chance of election. On the other hand, 
Mayor Walker has done a great deal 
for Harlem and is a much better man 
than the Republican, La Guardia; and 
Harlem will stand by him. Harlem 
will vote for a colored Congressman, 
for two colored Aldermen, for a col- 
ored member of the Assembly, for a 
colored leaders in Republican organi- 
zations. 

It is, of course, unfortunate that in 
all this, Harlem and the Negroes of 
the United States, must vote “‘colored”’ ; 
but the fault is not theirs. So long 
as the color of a man’s skin means 
more, to most candidates, than the tar- 
iff, democratic government, prohibition, 
war, or any other issue, just so long 





the black man must vote with his eye 
on this fact. In these larger issues, he 
disfranchises himself, but he refuses to 
commit suicide in order to save a white 
world. 


“PECHSTEIN AND PECK- 
SNIFF” 

HAVE just read with the keenest 

interest your article in this month’s 
Crisis headed “Pechstein and Peck- 
sniff”. I wish to thank you for this, 
and to assure you that I for one, al- 
though for many years a principal of a 
separate school for Negroes, realize 
that the points you make against it are 
true. It has been my experience that 
seldom if ever will a board of education 
spend the funds so as to give equal edu- 
cational opportunities to all. In most 
cases, the separation is no sooner made 
than the question of pro rata cost is 
raised, and the Negro school of course 
suffers. Of course your argument as 
to the logical end of racial segregation 
—Caste, Hate and War, is irrefutable. 





THE COLOR LINE AND THE 
CHURCH 


HEN the Reverend Mr. Black- 

shear of St. Matthew’s Protest- 
ant Episcopal Church, Brooklyn, in- 
vited Negroes out of his parish, there 
was much tumult and shouting which 
has now died away. Matters will now 
settle back to normal: Negroes will 
fade out of Mr. Blackshear’s church; 
as the surrounding community becomes 
more and more “colored”, this branch 
of the Church of Christ will move to a 
whiter neighborhood and St. Matthews 
will be “transferred” or sold to colored 


folk. 


And yet even this usual solution will 
not settle the matter. Mr. Blackshear 
and his vestry in drawing the color 
line in his church simply followed the 
policy of American Christianity. The 
American Church of Christ is “Jim- 
Crowed” from top to bottom. No 
other institution in America is built so 
thoroughly or more absolutely on the 
color line. Everybody knows this. 
Why then abuse Mr. Blackshear? He 
may be a blunt and tactless fool, but he 
is doing exactly what his church has 
done for 250 years, and, in this policy, 
the Episcopalians have been followed 
by the Catholic Church of America, 
and, in later years, by the Methodists, 
Baptists and Presbyterians. 

The reason for this is clear, if we re- 
gard the church as a group of ordinary 
human beings with human ignorance, 
prejudice and cruelty, as well as char- 
ity and good will. White Americans 


prefer not to associate with Negroes, 


387 


neither in homes, theatres, street cars 
nor churches. This is evidently what 
the Younger Churchmen (some of 
whom are beginning their second fifty 
years of life) almost tearfully acknowl- 
edge when they profess a “general 
guilt and perplexity.” 

But these gentlemen can not escape 
the dilemma into which this confession 
forces them. The church does not us- 
ually profess to be a group of ordinary 
human beings. It claims Divine Sanc- 
tion. It professes to talk with God 
and to receive directly His Command- 
ments.. Its ministers and members do 
not apparently have to acquire Truth 
by bitter experience and long intensive 
study; Truth is miraculously revealed 
to them. 

If, therefore, in the midst and in the 
face of this divine revelation of truth 
which is weekly thundered from their 
pulpits, they then turn around and con- 
fess that they are acting just like ordi- 
nary human beings, what becomes of 
all these pretensions of supernatural 
revelation? 

In other words, the church faces to- 
day as in other days, and with Ameri- 
can Negro problems as in other social 
problems, an inexorable dilemma: 
either the church must acknowledege 
itself to be a human organization 
largely composed of the rich and re- 
spectable, desirous of better things and 
groping for social uplift but restrained 
by inherited prejudice, economic priv- 
ilege and social fear; or the Church 
may continue to insist on its divine 
origin, supernatural power and absolute 
and immediate knowledge of Truth. 


In the latter case, when the Church 
meets the Negro problem, it writes 
itself down as a deliberate hyprocrite 
and systematic liar. It does not say 
“Come unto me all ye that labor,”; it 
does not “love its neighbor as itself.” ; 
it does not welcome “Jew and Gentile, 
barbarian, Scythian, bond and free,” ; 
and yet it openly and blatantly pro- 
fesses all this. 

On the other hand, a great human 
institution for social uplift and wider 
humanity has no reason to be ashamed 
in confessing its mistakes so long as it 
does with energy and determination 
seek to correct them. In the past, the 
Church has opposed every great mod- 
ern social reform; it opposed the spread 
of democracy, universal education, 
trades unionism, the abolition of pov- 
erty, the emancipation of women, the 
spread of science, the freedom of art 
and literature and the emancipation of 
the Negro slave. When the reform 
was gained, the Church righted itself, 
led usually by some scismatic and heret- 
ical part of itself, came over on the 
Lord’s side and usually did not hesi- 
tate both to claim a_ preponderant 


388 


share of the glory of victory and again 
to emphasize its supernatural claims. 


It is this latter development that 
disturbs and angers right thinking men. 
No one utterly condemns a Blackshear, 
born and raised in Texas and educated 
in a theological seminary, for crassly 
drawing a color line in human rela- 
tions. What else could be humanly 
expected? We can only insist on fac- 
ing facts, investigating consequences 
and telling the truth about this miser- 
able tangle in human relationships. 

Do we get this? No! We get 
casuistry, molasses and a little well- 
bred whining. We get a repetition of 
the “divine Mission of Christianity”, 
and then silence and quiet persistence 
in the exact wrong that raised the con- 
troversy. 


Examine the reply of Blackshear’s 
“Reverend Father in God”, Bishop 
Stires. It is little short of delicious. 
He says that when black folk appeared 
in his parish “he never found it neces- 
sary to suggest that he did not desire 
any more.” Of course, he did not. His 
black parishioners were in the position 
of that well-known “darky” who once 
tried repeatedly and persistently to join 
an Episcopal Church. At last he gave 
up and explained the matter to the 
rector: 

“‘Naw, Suh, naw Suh, I ain’t aimin’ 
to jine yo’ church. You see hit’s this- 
a-way: last night as I was prayin’ for 
grace, I done see Jesus. And Jesus 
done said to me, sezzee, Rastus, son, 
don’t try to get into dat ‘Piscopal 
Church no mo.’ I done been tryin’ to 
git in dar mahself for mighty nigh 
two thousand years and ah ain’t made 
it yit!” 

And so Bishop Stires cannot find a 
thing that he can do; and the Younger 
Churchmen will not find a change that 
they can agree upon. And the Church 
militant will prescribe a large amount 
of soothing syrup, while Bishop Man- 
ning and his ilk, wrapped in decorous 
and Episcopal silence, will devote his 
time and great talents to the Cathedral 
of St. John the Divine. 


! AM NOT INVITED 


T is extraordinary to think of the 
| heartaches and unhappiness that 
arise from the fact that Someone is not 
invited to go Somewhere at some par- 
ticular time. 

The reasons for not inviting Ev- 
erybody everywhere, of course, are per- 
fectly clear. Most housewives, and 
particularly the wives of the best class 
of colored people with moderate in- 
come, do their own housework. The 
entertainment of guests at lunch, or 
dinner or at an evening party involves 


a lot of time and a_back-breaking 
amount of work. Public opinion calls 
for good food well-cooked and a lot of 
it, served on excellent china, with clean 
linen and good silver. It is, therefore, 
wise and sensible that the number of 
guests be small. Six people could be 
attended to without subsequent nervous 
prostration. But what housewife dares 
to invite six friends? Something be- 
tween sixteen and sixty are always 
forced upon her because Someone 
would be terribly hurt and personally 
insulted if she were not invited Always 
and Everywhere. 

This results in two things: small 
cliques of people, who invite themselves 
to all their own functions, and miss 
the joy and inspiration of making new 
acquaintances. And secondly, it gives 
rise to endless heartache. 


I have seen grown, sensible women 
weep because they were not invited. 
I have seen men get hard and bit- 
ter and plan all sorts of retaliation 
because they were not invited. I have 
known extraordinary campaigns of 
pleading, blackmail and vilification to 
extract from a reluctant hostess invita- 
tions for some forgotten or excluded 
person. The assumption is that if you 
are not always Everywhere that this is 
a subtle attack upon your moral char- 
acter, upon your social status, or upon 
your style of beauty. 

If now people could be sensible 
about these things, how easily it would 
all work out. This week you invite 
this group of six; next month you in- 
vite quite another group; during the 
year you have the joy of meeting be- 
tween seventy-five and one hundred 
people, all of whom you learn to like 
and appreciate. 

Or again, even if Mrs. Jones did not 
have you at dinner last week, or if you 
are not a member of Mrs. Smith’s 
exclusive card club, nevertheless you 
invite Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Smith be- 
cause you like them and they like you, 
and because likable people are not too 
frequent in this queer world. 

But above all, how much easier the 
whole thing would be if there were 
some co-operation in entertaining to 
bring its cost down to the pocketbooks 
of poor people. For instance,’ (and | 
realize the blasphemy of the sugges- 
tion), why on earth shouldn’t the 
guests turn to and wash up the dishes 
after a good dinner? I saw this at- 
tempted by a hostess once, and with 
great reluctance and black looks, it was 
carried through. But the guests never 
got through talking about it. They 
doubtless thought that it would have 
been much finer for her to have hired 
help that she could not afford, or 
worked herself sick until after mid- 


(Will you please turn to page 394) 


THE Crisis 




















oa 
ia 
® 
Po 
1 












ing 
alls 
t of 
ean 
ore, 
of 
be 
‘ous 
ares 
be- 
yays 
sone 
ally 
vays 


mall 
Ives 
miss 
new 
riVes 


»men 
‘ited. 

bit- 
ation 
have 
> of 
yn to 
\vita- 
uded 
f you 
his is 
char- 
upon 


nsible 
vould 
invite 
yu in- 
g the 
ig be- 
ndred 
o like 


id not 
if you 
mith’s 
$s you 
th be- 
e you, 
ot too 


er the 
» were 
ing to 
tbooks 
(and | 
sugges- 
rt the 
- dishes 
-his at- 
d with 
“it was 
; never 

They 
d have 
e hired 
ord, or 
+r mid- 


e 394) 


CrIsIs 














Atlanta University 
Atlanta, Georgia 


Graduate Courses 
Senior and Junior and Sopho- 
more College Courses. 


For information address 


The President 































MorEHOUSE COLLEGE 
(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College) 
ATLANTA, GA. 

College, Academy, Divinity School 
A* institution famous within recent 

years for its emphasis on all sides 
manly development—the only insti- 
in the far South devoted solely 
education of Negro young men. 
” Gradontes am high ranking by 


— universities. Debat- 
Ey M. °C. A ., athletics, all live fea- 
FOR INFORMATION, Address 
JOHN HOPE, President 
TALLADEGA COLLEGE 
A Liberal Arts College 
of Highest Grade 
Approved by Great Educational Agencies 
ond leading Graduate Schools of the 
Country. 
Unexce._ep LocaTIoNn. 
STRONG Facu tty. 
SPLENDID EQUIPMENT. 
Plant worth 
one and one-half million 


For further particulars address 


The President or the Dean 


TALLADEGA, COLLEGE 
TALLADEGA " ALABAMA 


Knoxville College 


KNOXVILLE, TENN. 


ODPPPPPL DIPS LPLL LLP PLP PPP PPP PPO PP PPD 
Beautiful Situation and Healthful Location. 
Best Moral and Spiritual Environment. 

Splendid Intellectual Atmosphere. 
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work. 


7 Aceredited for 
Weachers’ Certifieates by State Beard. 
Seme-like ana Life with Careful Supervisien. 
Live Athletic and Literary Interests. 


en High Seheel, House- 






s: Oem. 
Arts aad Mi 


— Very Reasonabie 
@atalog and ether literature sent free upen request. 


Address: 3. KELLY GIFFEN, President. 
KNOXVILES, TENN. 


St. Mary’s School 


4m Episcopal boarding school for girls, 
wmder the direction of the sisters of St. 
Mary. Address: THE SISTER-IN-CHARGE, 
6188 Germantown Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa. 


THE CRISIS 


eee. 






) 
‘i 


November, 1929 








ADEE EEe:oSaboooo0.uo02_0E02G02»0C0C0 
S 

5 Purpose 

S To provide the Twelve 
® Million Colored people 
Sj of the United States 
—& with College - trained 
and Professional leaders 
G@ through its courses in 
© the ARTS, SCIENCES, 
ig SOCIOLOGY, EDU- 
6 CATION, ECONOM- 
J ICS; its Schools of 
Music, Applied Science, 
= Medicine, Dentistry, 
2 Pharmacy, Religion and 
@ Law. 

a Mordecai W. Johnson 
g President 

¢ Emmett J. Scott 

g Secretary-Treasurer 
5 

SqAGqae oEGgeEas qaee 


HARTSHORN MEMORIAL 


(COLLEGE 
Richmond, Va. 
NOW—An Academy 
Eventually—A_ Cellege 


t he Separate 


Education 


sot. Women. 


Whis institution which has 
the separate education 


of 
sinee its founding in 1883, will, 


and courses ; Course 
Cellege Prepeveeary Course whieh will admit Po 


any college. 


ef Christian character is the 


Send for a catalogue to the President. 
MRS. HARRIETTI.TALCOTT, 


RICHMOND, VA. 





BUY N.A.A.C.P. XMAS SEALS 


Book of 200 — $2.00 
SEND ORDERS TO 
Mrs. M. T. Garrison 


Box 364 
GARY, WEST VA. 


ORDER EARLY 





circulates through agents 


HOWARD UNIV 


[EGE STSSoS50Eo0o0u02E06C0"5O5OSoOOHEOoSEEE6 


ERSIT 


Founded by General Oliver Otis Howard WASHINGTON, D. C. 





An Outstanding National University 
Located at the Capital of the Nation, with a campus 
of twenty-five acres. Modern, scientific and general 
equipment. A plant worth approximately $3,000,000. 
A Faculty of 176 members. A Student Body of ap- 
proximately 2400, from 36 different states and 14 
foreign countries. Generally acknowledged to be the 


outstanding National University of the Colored People 
of America. 


Students may enter for Collegiate Work at the 
Beginning of any Quarter 


REGISTRATION PERIODS 
AUTUMN QuarTER September 30—October 1, 2, 1929 
WINTER QuarTeER January 2, 3, 1930 
Sprinc QuarTER March 20, 21, 1930 


HOWARD’S NEEDS 


$130 per year to cover incidental fees, etc. (tui- 
tion) of a student for a year. $2,600 for Pes- 
manent Scholarships. An Endowment Fuad ef 
at least $5,000,000. An Administration build- 
ing, $125,000 to. $150,000. A dormitory for 
Young Men, $150,000. A building for the Cel- 
lege of Education, $150,000. Contributions fee 
Current Expenses in any amount, however small, 


a 


qOGGoeoowooebeis 


: 


BEeESeeiooeGagsi 


GRADUATE 
SCHOOL 


én the 
Howard University 
School of Religion 


wae 


SPECIAL DEPARTMENTS IN 
MINISTERIAL TRAINING, RELI- 
GIOUS EDUCATION, SOCIAL 
SERVICE FOR COLLEGE 

GRADUATES 


fer 


of 


New Courses of Study: Graduate 
Scholarships: An Enlarged Faculty: 
Splendid Opportunities for Practical 
Field Work: Unsurpassed Advantages 
Afforded by Connection with a Grest 
University Located in the National 
Capitol. 

Students received at the beginning 

of each quarter. 


For FurTHER INFORMATION, ADDABSS: 
D. BUTLER PRATT, Deaa 
School of Religion 


Howard University 
Washington, D. C. 


and subscribers in every one of the 


United States, in Europe, Asia and Africa, in South and Central 


America, the Hawaiian, Phillippine and West Indian Islands and elsewhere around the world. No 
voice reaches further than the advertising page of THE CRIsIs. 





Gogggs 


[t 


BS) 


jE EoooSSsEaeesess 


(Gj) G 


Gqaacas 








389 


The Negro in Law 
(Continued from page 369) 


fact that in Southern towns the Negro 
section is either without or is the last 
to receive sewers, gas and electricity, 
paved streets, city water service and 
regular removal of ashes and garbage. 
Such ordinances were passed by at least 
a dozen of our leading southern cities. 
But in 1917 the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored Peo- 
ple carried as a test case such an ordi- 
nance adopted by the city of Louisville, 
Kentucky to the United States Su- 
preme Court. That body in the case 
of Buchanan vs. Warley held such or- 
dinances invalid. For some unthink- 
able reason the city of New Orleans 
and even the state court of the State 
of Louisiana refused to recognize the 
decision of Buchanan vs. Warley and 
again in 1925 the Association tested a 
similar ordinance enacted by the city of 
New Orleans. This time the United 
States Supreme Court affirmed the de- 
cision of Buchanan vs. Warley, with- 
out opinion. During the year Rich- 
mond, Va., and Atlanta, Ga., have 
done the same thing. ~~ 

But the Negro’s contact with the 
law has not always been, and is not 
now, concerned with special legislation. 
He is at a disadvantage as far as the 
application of otherwise meritorious 
laws. These disadvantages have most- 
ly been procedural and remedial; they 
have, however, influenced the substance 
and merits of his cause. For instance, 
on the witness stand a Negro unjustly 
has to overcome a burden of color al- 
most everywhere, and in the South the 
judge and jury almost universally re- 
fuse to give credence to his testimony 
if it is contradicted by a person with 
a white skin. 


Negroes are seldom called upon as 
jurors. Even in New York City, they 
are not called in proportion to their 
population or to the number of Negroes 
amply qualified for this great duty of 
citizenship. In the South a Negro 
juror is almost unknown. Many a 
Negro on trial for crime in Southern 
states has been granted a new trial by 
the U. S. Supreme Court because there 
has been affirmative discrimination 
against qualified Negroes in selecting 
the jury panel which was to try a par- 
ticular case. 

And what of the Negroes respect 
for the law? Much has been written 
of the criminal tendencies of the Ne- 
gro. It is true that the arrestants 
among Negroes greatly exceed the 
average of his population in this coun- 
try. Analysis will show, however, 
that there is a difference in the treat- 
ment of Negroes both by policemen 
making the arrest, and the committing 


390 


magistrate before whom a civilian 
brings a complaint about the Negro. 
After being held the Negro will be con- 
victed on much less evidence than 
would a white person charged with 
the same crime; after he has been con- 
victed or after he has entered a plea 
of guilty to the charge, there is a fur- 
ther difference in treatment. In al- 
most every city in the United States 
fewer Negroes are placed on probation 
or received suspended sentences than 
you will find among the other group. 
It is well recognized that under our 
present penal system prison terms usual- 
ly harden criminals rather than cure 
them. Even juvenile delinquents 
among Negroes are not accorded the 
same guidance and supervision as other 
juvenile delinquents. They are usual- 
ly returned to the streets where they 
are left open to every influence, good 
or bad. 












FREE 


EAST 
Made in Oklahoma City 


- S. D. LYONS 


316 N. Central Avenue 


WQS 


Lincol hal 
261-269 Wes t 125: St_N-Y.C. 


Secretarial 
All Commercial Course 
Civil Service Course 


REGENTS AIDS: Algebra, English, Gram- 
mar, Arithmetic-elementary and ad- 


vanced, Social Science, Geography and 


U. S. History. 

SPECIAL CORRESPONDENCE COURSE 
—for license No. 1 Exam. N. Y. City 
Elementary Schools. 

SUMMER SCHOOL COACHING — 90 
hours July-August classes now forming 
May examins. 

LECTURE COURSE now organizing. 

INSTRUCTORS: Gilby Robinson L.L.B. 
(Lond) F.1.P.S. Howard Day B.S., M. 
A. (Fordham University New York). 


CATALOGUES ON REQUEST 
Phone Monument 3620 





Price, $1.50 





THE HAIR DRESSERS 


Comb very heavy, solid brass, holds heat a 
long time, used in every parlor. 


Satisfaction Guaranteed. 


Oil Stove for heating Combs and Pressers, 


Water, etc. 


Price, $2.00 


CURLING IRON 
WITH STOVE AND COMB 


INDIA HAIR GROWER 
Sold Everywhere, 50 Cents a Jar 


Oklahoma City, Okla. 


Send for Wholesale Price List 





GRAY HAIRS eed worry 









It 


dyed. 


Brown, 


weir EAU DENNA ie 
Liquid Dye 
(formerly Eau de Henna) 
will cover gray hair in 10 to 30 minutes so that you would not know it 
ever was gray. It is liquid. One application with a toothbrush does it. 
No pack. No mess 


You get the natural color. 
Leaves it soft and lustrous—no dead color—no streaks—no spots— 
just a unifoim color. 


ANYONE CAN PUT IT ON 
will not rub off. 
sun, permanent waving, curling or straightening iron—nothing takes it off. 

You can cover any gray no matter how stubborn or how caused. It 
also takes at the roots. 


Wonderful for Touching Up 


You can put it on just where needed. 
where powdered hennas have been used. 


Full directions in each box in English and Spanish. Colors: 
Drab, Blond, 
through your department store, druggist or Beauty Parlor or from us. 


HAIR SPECIALTY CO., Dept. 161M, 112 East 23rd St., New York 








No one will suspect your hair has been 








It stays on several months. Shampooing, sea bathing, 








Can be used over other dyes or 
Does not break the hair. 
Does Not Interfere With Permanent Waving 


Black, Dark Brown, 
Price $2.50 cash with order, 











Medium Brown, Light 
C.0.D. $2.77. Order 
Give full local address. 





Auburn (state color desired). 





Men as well as women can use Eau Denna to advantage. 


THE Crisis 




















rr 


re 


— oe on a. en ee ee 


a= 


~~ < iw 














Crisis 





The Negro feels that these are ma- 
ters which should be corrected by the 
American people. He realizes that he 
owes a duty as a citizen, and he is 
coming more and more to rely upon 
the law to protect his citizenship and 
to secure that equal opportunity which 
is his legal right and which is also na- 
tural justice. He longs for the day 
when special legislation to protect his 
rights will be unnecessary and with 
the same ardor he longs for the day 
when laws intended to oppress and 
humiliate him will no longer be found 
among American statutes anywhere. 


Aunt Sarah 


(Continued from page 371) 


brothers and sisters she was soon for- 
gotten. 


It seems she drifted from place to 
place earning less and less as she grew 
older and her health failed until finally 
she was taken to the poor-house. Here 
she died, alone and friendless. ‘When 
Mr. Snyder heard of her death he said, 
“I'll go get old Sarah’s body so she 
can be buried beside Harry.” 

Last summer I visited Kent in hopes 
of seeing some of the old familiar places 
but most of the land marks had dis- 
appeared and I couldn’t even find the 
Spring where Dido and I used to get 
water. But with the assistance of the 
Episcopal church records we found 
Aunt Sarah’s and Uncle Harry’s 
graves which were covered’ with 
myrtle, the purple flowers making a 
beautiful and appropriate blanket. 

The rector said a mass in the little 
chapel and as I stood with bowed head 
1 wondered what my life would have 
been if Aunt Sarah hadn’t sent me to 
school. 


I am an old woman now and my 
thoughts often revert to those early 
childhood days, so we have named my 
last grandchild, Sarah, in memory of 
that other Sarah who passed away 
years ago. 


Baptist Missions 
(Continued from page 372) 


for the training of church workers to 
the end of establishing a missionary 
chair, which we hope to finance from 
our Board. We are anxious to spe- 
cialize in agriculture, especially in 
Liberia where they are so backward 
respecting this industry. We _ have 
purchased there more than 4000 acres 
of land and we plan to give young men 
the best agricultural training possible 
in this country to the end of teaching 


November, 19209 





Allen University 
Columbia, $. C. 
A Co-Educational Institution 


Offering Courses in 
TYME JUNIOR COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 
ARTS AND SCIENCES 
THEOLOGY MUSIC 
HOME ECONOMICS 
TRACHER TRAINING A SPECIALTY 
DEGREES: A.B., B.D., Th.B., 
A.B. in Education 
Approved by the State of Somth Coroline. Aided 
by the Slater Fand end the Generel Edacction 
Beerd. Facilities increased this year. 


DAVID H. SIMS, President 
BISHOP JOHN HURST, 
Chairman Trustee Board 





Study Business Subjects at 


9 e 
The Stenographers’ Institute 
larly known as DUNCAN’S BUSINESS 
8cHOO , 1227 S. 17th St., Phila., Pa. They’B 
make you a competent stenographer, book- 
Keeper or typist in a short time. Dormitories 
for Girls. 
Winter term begins January 2, 1930—Prepare 
to take Civil Service Examinations. 





(HE CHEYNEY TRAINING 


ScHOOL FOR TEACHERS 
(4 B8TATE NORMAL SCHOOL) 


CHEYNEY, PA. 


{ PENNSYLVANIA State Normal School 
offering, in addition to the regular Normal 
veademic Course of two years, professional 
tree year eourses in Home Economics and 
thep Work. 
. Gploma from any ef these courses makes a 
radmate eligible to teach in the public schools 
t Pennsylvania. 


Yor further information end catalog, write 


LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal 
CHEYNEY, PA. 





Watchman Industrial School 
North Scituate, Rh. Is. 
(William S..Holland, Pres.) 





for Health, Education and 
Inspiration built upen a school site of long-standing 
heme of Three Educational Institutions— 


fi 
: 
z 
i 
a 
i 


Behool. New equipment now being installed. Bile- 


fermatien write the President. 


ATTENTION GIRLS! 


If you would like some pleasant, dignified work 
during your snare time, write us immediately. We 


have a wonderful opening for wide-awake people. 


Southern Stelos Company 
(Hosiery Repair Service) 
1021 U Street, N.W. 
Washington, D. C. 





State Agricultural and 
Mechanical College 


ORANGEBURG, S. C. 


Fully accredited Teachers’ and Bachelor De- 
gree Courses. Modern Buildings. Faculty 
from best Institutions in America. 


Fall Term Begins Sept. 25, 1929 


For Catalog, Address 
R. S. WILKINSON, President 


State accredited 
Three year course in 
general nursing. 50 
bed hospital. On ap- 
proved list of Amer- 
fean College of Sur- 

tuition, 


above sea level. Only 
High School G 
uates admitted. 


_ 
Write to, Ethel M. Bigham, R. N. 
Supt. of Nurses 


BuRRELL MemoriAL Hospitat 
Roanoke, Va. 





The Lincoln School for Nurses 


NEW YORK CITY 
Three year course. Open to young women hevi 
completed a four year high school course and hol 
ing a diploma. Graduates eligible for New York 
State examination for R. N. 
Capacity Lincoln Hospital—450 beds— 
New Nurses’ Home 
New York affords opportunity to observe health 
and nursing service of the best in the country. 
Lincoln graduates stand foremost in their profes- 
sion. 

Special graduate work — Scholarships 
For information apply te: 
SUPERINTENDENT OF NURSES 
Lincoln School for Nurses 
E. 141st St. and Southern Boulevard 
New York, N. Y. 











ST. AUGUSTINE’S 
COLLEGE 


Raleigh, North Carolina 
Founded, 1867 


Conducted under the auspices of the 
Episcopal Church. 


A four-year College Course is offered, 
including Pre-Medical and Teacher-Train- 
ing features. 

A College Preparatory Department, 
Training School for Nurses, and School 
for Religious and Social Workers are con- 
nected with the College. 

Thorough training, healthy environment, 
Christian influences. 


For catalog and information write 
The Registrar, 


St. Augustine’s College 
Raleigh, N. C. 






























































Milestones 


The first milestone 
is passed and with 
modest pride we 
look back at our 
year’s record. 


A year of con- 
stantly increasing 
business is proof 
that we under- 
stand we are 
meeting the bank- 
ing problems of 
our depositors. 


Intelligent and ef- 

ficient service 

combined with 
conservative and 
sound advice 
have co-operated 
to successfully es- 
tablish THE 
DUNBAR N A - 
TIONAL BANK 
—definitely iden- 
tifying it as your 
bank. 


If we haven’t had 
your support this 
past year, we 
want it this com- 
ing year. If we 
have had it, we 
want to thank you 
publicly for it. 


The 


DUNBAR NATIONAL BANK 
of New York 
2824 Eighth Ave at 150thSt 


The Friendly Bank. 


Founded by John D RockefellerJr 


EARN EXTRA MONEY 


In Your Spare Time 


Taking orders for Chowning’s Christmas Greeting 
Cards. Big demand among all classes of people. 
Cards are attractive and sell at reasonable prices. 


Greeting and customer’s name furnished in raised 
letter printing on beautiful card stocks, with lined 
envelopes to match. 
New: Several Cards with Race Subjects 
Collect liberal commission with order. We de- 


liver. Start mow. Handsome sample book fur- 
nished. Write today for details. 


THE HOUSE OF CHOWNING 
27 Cleveland Ave. Indianapolis, Ind. 








that needed industry in Liberia. Our 
workers are paid either monthly or 
quarterly. We were fortunate in clos- 
ing our fiscal year with having paid 
every one his salary to date. We pay 
their transportation to and from the 
field and have them sign an agreement 
to stay five years in Africa if their 
health permits. 

We have a long ways to go yet but 
feel that we are making a good start. 


Business 
(Continued from page 375) 


is bound to change in the near future; 
and that this change will be toward 
wider and wider democratic control of 
industry ; and toward the submergence 
of the personal profit idea into the idea 
of business and industry as public ser- 
vice, similar in kind to other human 
activities. It may well be argued that 
this change will come slowly, but it 
will come and if the American Negro 
is wise, he will anticipate its coming in 
his own ideals and development. He 
cannot, of course, adopt the Socialistic 
state or the Communistic ideal alone 
and unaided, while he is still an inte- 
gral part of a nation whose whole pol- 
ity is built on private capital and in- 
dividual profit. But he can so guide 
his industrial development that it will 
fit in with the change, as it comes. 
His best highway toward such de- 
velopment is Consumer’s Co-operation 
as it is known and practiced in most 
modern civilized countries. It is a sim- 
ple project: an organization of con- 
sumers for the sake of supplying cer- 
tain of their own wants for goods and 
services. This gradually develops into 
the raising, transportation and manu- 
facture of these goods and eventually 


Rust College 


GOING TO COLLEGE? 
Come to Rust College—Beautifully 
Located. Students from 
Fourteen States 






~~ 





College of Liberal Arts, Standard 
Normal, Home Economics, Music, 
Junior and senior High Schools. 





EGcient Faculty. New Equipment fer 
Laberateries, Enlarged Library. 
Rates Reessnable 


For further information write 
President L. M. McCoy 
Holly Springs : Mississippi 








from the simple forms of co-operation 
it may rise to the more complex forms, 
It is an industrial system based on in- 
telligence, loyalty and the substitution 
of group advance for individual profit. 

Will such a system work? The an- 
swer is it has worked in 36 countries of 
Europe and America for three quarters 
of a century, and had in 1927, fifty 
million families as members. You have 
never heard of it? Certainly not. 

In the United States it meets the 
organized opposition of widespread ad- 
vertising, chain stores, monopoly and 
the silence of a capitalistic press. Never- 
theless, its problem is simple for intelli- 
gent and honest people. The litera- 
ture which explains it is clear and 
cheap. There are organizations which 
will send lecturers and experts; and 
above all, there is the experience of 
fifty million families who today are 
escaping the grasp of capitalistic 
oligarchy through the door of co-opera- 
tion. 


Literature 
(Continued from page 377) 


Native Policies in White Africa. J. de 
G. Delmege. 19th Century, August. 
Negroes’ New Belligerant Attitude. V. 
F. Calverton. Current History, Sep- 

tember. 

Fictitious Negro. 
look, August 21. 

Regional Portraiture in Recent Litera- 
ture. H. W. Odum. Saturday Re- 
view of Literature, July 27. 

Homes for Aged Colored Persons. 
Monthly Labor Review, August. 

Southern Remarks on Northern Race 
Riots. Literary Digest, August 10. 

Two Decades of Negro Life. R. W. 
Bagnall. New Republic, August 7. 

Wail of the Negro. G. J. Nathan. 
American Mercury, September. 

Negro in Industry and Business. Month- 
ly Labor Review, July. 

Southern Negro. Factory and Industrial 
Management, August. 

Negro Looks at Politics. J. W. Johnson. 


American Mercury, September. 


G. C. Morse. Out- 


nM. A. A. ©. P. 
(Continued from page 379) 


of the work of the National Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Colored 
People. 

There is nothing of greater import- 
ance for the future of white civiliza- 
tion itself than the establishment of 
more just and humane relations across 
the color line. I find the information 
given in your yearly report quite in- 
valuable for judging the symptoms of 
improvement and occasional relapse, 
and I could wish that the same thing 
were being done in respect of the col- 
ored peoples in Africa, and particularly 
those under the British flag. Your 


THE Crisis 








‘ation 
orms, 
Nn in- 
‘ution 
rofit, 
le an- 
‘les of 
arters 

fifty 
| have 


s the 
id ad- 
y and 
‘ever- 
ntelli- 
litera- 
- and 
which 
; and 
ice of 
y are 
alistic 
opera- 


J. de 
rust. 

le. V. 
1, Sep- 


Out- 


Litera- 


iy Re- 


ersons. 


‘athan. 
Mf onth- 
lustrial 


yhnson. 


) 


ssocia- 
‘olored 


mport- 
viliza- 
ent of 
across 
mation 
ite in- 
oms of 
elapse, 
> thing 
he col- 
cularly 
Your 


Crisis 


work must have the hearty sympathy 
of all who have any respect for social 


justice. 


CURRY’S CANDIES and SALTED NUTS 


One trial makes a Customer 
One Customer Brings Others 


ORDER BY MAIL 
Sample pound box—90 cents 


CURRY SWEET SHOP 


172 Dixwell Ave., New Haven, Conn. 


Wiley College 


MARSHALL, TEXAS 
M. W. DOGAN, President 
H. J. MASON, Executive Secretary 


Ideals, Praditions, Sunt of the Finest Quali. 
Faoulty composed ef igh grade teachers. 


a Fecegnized in number ef states 
Fer further information, write the Dean or 
REGISTRAR. 





NATIONAL NEGRO HYMN 
Lift Every Voice and Sing 


Words by James Weldon Johnson 
Music by J. Rosamond Johnson 


A SONG WITH A HEART 
INSPIRES YOUNG AND OLD 
15 cents a copy 


$1.50 per dozen copies 
$12.00 the hundred copies 


For Sale by 


THE CRISIS 
69 Fifth Ave. New York, N. Y. 





Downingtown Industrial 
and Agricultural School 


DOWNINGTOWN, PA. 

(Ussder the Supervision of the Pennsyl- 
wenis Department of Public Instruction.) 
SPECIALIZES 
fm tsaiming geed workers and good eltisens and 
Mere te beys and girls ever thirteen years ef age 

Healthy Cilmate Outside ef City 

Faculty ef Cellege-trained Teachers 

Junler and Senier High Seheel Courses 

Preperly Supervised Athictic and Seclal 
Recreation 


Bor me information write 


H. N. WARING, JR. Principal 


AN EPIC OF PROGRESS 








National Training School 


Lincoln Heights, 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 


jan school for ambitious y =. 

Ng of the ae has a 

ful ot eons steam heated buildings, a 
all, a faculty of ten Christian teach: 

ers from the best colleges and universities, activi- 

ties for the Rg of =. mental, 

atmosphere 


and moral 
conducive to "Goveeomens of of nignest “ide als. 


It offers two years Junior Hi four years 
School, two years standard Raat ind — - 


it has a eS Gonssruatery of Musie. 
Send for a cata’ 


National Training Se School for Women and Girls 


Lincoln Heights, Washington, D. C. 
Miss Nannie H. Burroughs, President. 


VIRGINIA UNION 
UNIVERSITY 


RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
ATED as a class A college by the 
State Boards of Education in Vir- 
ginia and North Carolina. 
In addition to the > general college cur- 
riculum, work ae ered in the follow- 
ing departmen 


Teachers College Pre-Medical 
Theological Law 
Conamercial 


For additional information 
address THE PRESIDENT 


A NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN CONTRIBUTION 
TO THE WORLD OF JOURNALISM 


THE TWENTIETH ANNIVERSARY EDITION 


The New Pork 


December 4, 1929 


Amsterdam News 


MAGAZINE SECTION—ROTOGRAVURE—NEWS 
WORLD WIDE IN SCOPE,—YET PAINTING A MOST VIVID 
PICTURE OF THE MOST INTERESTING COMMUNITY IN THE WORLD 


HARLEM 


The Leading and Most Progressive Organizations, Schools and Business Concerns will give their Mes- 
sages to the Public through the News and Advertising Columns. 


ORDER YOUR COPY NOW— 


ADDRESSED TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD 


15c POSTPAID 


NOTE: Advertising Forms will Close November 15th and Rate Cards will be Mailed to prospec- 
tive Advertisers upon Application t o Publication Department. 


THE NEW YORK AMSTERDAM NEWS 


November, 10920 


2293 SEVENTH AVENUE, 


NEW YORK CITY 





393 








HOTELS 


er: 


HOTEL OLGA 


695 Lenox Ave. cor. 145th St. 
NEW YORK CITY 


SELECT FAMILY AND 
TOURIST HOTEL 
Running hot and cold water in each room. All 


rooms outside exposure. rvice: subway and 
surface cars at door. Rates reasonable. 


ED. H. WILSON, Proprietor 
Telephone: Audubon 3796 








EAT 


in 


TRY MY 
TURKEY 


DINNER |National 


PUMPKIN | Capital 





t 


THURSTON’S 


1934 9th Street (near U) N. W. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 


Close to Howard University 
Near All Big Theatres 
In the heart of the choice homes and leading 
churches 


The last word in modern equipment enables 
us to serve the best meals at lowest cost 





Wen in New York 
make the 


HOTEL DUMAS 


Your stopping place 
205 W. 135th Street 


At Seventh Avenue 


Just across the street 
from Everywhere 





Telephones 
BRADHURST 1131 
AUDUBON 4343 





Price Lowest 
Service Unsurpassed 





other 
none 


There are 
Hotels, but 
Better than 


The HOTEL 
DUMAS 


F. C. FANE, prop. 











YOUNG MEN! 


When in Chicago stay at the Y. M. C. A. Com- 
fertable rooms, cafeteria, gymnasium, satate- 
rium. Employment Bureau for members. 


Fer further information address 


Y. M. C. A. 


3763 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 





THE CRISIS 
proposes to feature and expand 
this page. Will our friends 


write us of their experience and 
recommend botels in all leading 
cities? 





Color Line 
(Continued from page 384) 


been studying the ruins of Zimbabwe 
in South East Africa believes that a 
civilized race lived in this region seven 
thousand years ago, and that they were 
miners, exporters and builders. He 
thinks that they entered Africa from 
Asia. Iron and iron manufacture have 
been in existence in Central Africa, 
2,500 years before they introduced into 
Europe. 


@ Mr. J. G. Gumbs, an officer of the 
I. C. U., the Negro Labor Union of 
South Africa, died in Capetown, July 
4th. He was born in the West Indies 
and did hospital service during the 
Boer War; after taking part in the 
Dock strike, he became a leader of 
African trade unionism. 


@ In South Africa a white man earn- 
ing up to $2,000 a year is untaxed, 
while a native earning $60 a year has 
to pay a Five Dollar hut tax. This 
is in addition to what both white and 
black pay in indirect taxes. From his 


tax the Negro receives practically 
nothing. All of it goes to European 


education and enterprise. 


Postscript 
(Continued from page 388) 


night. They got their ideas of “society” 
from Sunday newspapers and English 
novels. 

The result of all this is the tre- 
mendous increase of restaurant eating 
and cabaret visiting, and public mass 
amusement of all sorts. There is noth- 
ing to be said against these things, ex- 
cept one word: they make impossible 
the intimacy, the jollity, and the per- 
sonal contact of people who like each 
other’s company and who are inter- 
ested in the same thing, and who want 
a chance to hear their own voices. 

The next time you are not invited, 
thank God for the hostess’ strength 
of mind and retaliate by inviting her 
whenever you want to, not because you 
ought to, but because you like her. 













Youthport 
(Continued from page 385) 


closed a group photograph of some of 
the black students in the above college. 
You may publish it in your next issue, 
In the centre are the Principal Revd, 
R. T. Lockhart, B.A., with his wife 
and the Revd. W. Warren, B.Sc. 

I am a Negro student of 15 years 
and I am leaving college next year 
after a course of four years. I am very 
eager to continue my studies in Amer- 
ica but my father’s salary is so meagre 
that I find it impossible to do so. | 
shall therefore be more than thankful 
and indebted to you, Sir, if you will 
endeavor to secure me a Scholarship 
or otherwise, granting me entrance to 
any of the Negro universities in Amer- 
ica. 

Should you be successful in securing 
me a place, my father will try to pay 
my passage money to America. If any 
inquiry as to my conduct be desired, it 
can be obtained from the Principal of 
the above college without delay. My 
father’s address is: G. Dei-Anang, P. 
O. Box 45, Koforidua, Gold Coast. 

Trusting that you will help me 
whole-heartedly, and hoping to hear 
from you very soon, I remain, Sir, 

Your Obedient Servant, 
(Signed) M. F. Dei-Anang. 


NOTICE 

ENCEFORTH, the babies will 

get annual attention in our Octo- 
ber “Children’s Number’, and in Mr. 
Pickens’ occasional reports of Babies’ 
Contests. On the other hand, there will 
appear at least every other month and, 
if successful, every month, one or two 
pages called YOUTHPORT. 

These pages will be the property of 
the Junior Division—that is, of the 
youth 14 to 21 years of age, who belong 
or want to belong or ought to belong 
to the N. A. A. C. P. 

From such members an Editor-in- 
chief and two assistants will be se- 
lected by competition as follows: all 
members of Junior Divisions are hereby 
invited to send the THe CRISIS on or 
before December First, 1929, an essay 
of 300 words on “How the JuNior 
Crisis shall be conducted and what it 
shall aim to do.” 


The writers of the First, Second and 
Third best essays shall be appointed 
respectively Editor-in-Chief and First 
and Second Assistant Editors. We 
shall need an Art Editor too, so that 
instead of essays some may send pic- 
tures or original photographs. Effie 
Lee Newsome has been invited to act 
as Critic of the page and be in general 
charge over the editorial staff. She 
and the Editors of THe Crisis will 
decide on the merits of the essays. 


THE Crisis 












ne of 
llege. 
issue. 
Revd, 


wife 


years 
year 
very 
\mer- 
eagre 
fo. I 
nkful 
will 
irship 
ce to 
\mer- 


uring 
0 pay 
f any 
ed, it 
al of 
My 
7. 
st. 
> me 
hear 


nang. 


; will 
Octo- 
1 Mr. 
abies’ 
e will 
1 and, 
r two 


rty of 
f the 
elong 
velong 


‘or-in- 
ye se- 
s: all 
rereby 
on or 
essay 
JNIOR 
hat it 


d and 
pinted 
First 
We 

» that 
1 pic- 
Effie 
to act 
eneral 
She 

5 will 


De 


CRISIS 





Round Table Talks—Twentieth Year Program 


In November, 1910, the CRISIS began. 
we start the 20th year which we hope to finish with a 
larger circulation and a bigger and better magazine. This 
will be possible only through the co-operation of writers, 


ALABAMA 

I am no quitter. I love THE CRISIS and if it 
ever has a Waterloo I will be right there with the 
“Old Guard.’’ 

William G. Porter. 

ARIZONA 

Send me 55 CRISIS every month until I notify 
you to send more. 
’ Mrs. Minnie Hall. 


ARKANSAS 
THE CRISIS is the greatest stimulant that comes 
into my State. Selling it is patriotism. 


Mrs. E. Josenberger. 
CALIFORNIA 
1 am enclosing check for $102.60 for copies sold 
including September. Most of the copies are sold 
in drug stores. 


COLORADO 


Your agent (my son) is doing fine. Is only five 
years old. Send 30 copies. 
Dr. i. E. Moore. 


Dr. Vada J. Somerville. 


CONNECTICUT 
I am working hard to increase my sales. Send 
me 70 copies. This is a small city. 
William G. Rhinehart. 


DELAWARE 
The Mayor paid for 7 copies to be distributed 
among most important clubs. Enclosed find order for 
copies and subscriptions. 
Mrs. Mary Hays Stevens. 


DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Accept my heartiest thanks for your promptness. 
Forward 10 additional copies. 

Miss Mary L. Mason. 


FLORIDA 

I had no trouble selling them. I did not have 
enough. 

F L. M. Wells. 
GEORGIA 


Increasing our order to 50 copies. — 
Yates and Milton Pharmacy. 


ILLINOIS 
Send me 565 copies for October. Kindly note in- 
crease in my order and decrease in returns. 
M. M. White. 
INDIANA 


I find that I have such demand for THE CRISIS 
that I am asking you to send me 5 more at once. 
Mrs. F. E. Johnson. 


IOWA 
Our pastor bought 5 copies of Education Number 
to present to white ministers. 

S. Earle Weeks. 
KANSAS 


Send me 69 copies as usual. Watch for increase. 
John W. Freeman. 


KENTUCKY 
Enclosing $9. Have been sick and find it hard to 
lepend on helpers. 
Mrs. Jerdena Baker. 
LOUISIANA 
Please send me 50 copies at once. I shall endeavor 


to increase my customers. 
James Fowler. 


NAME 


ADDRESS 


r 


advertisers, agents, subscribers and buyers of single copies. 





MARYLAND 
Kindly forward me at your earliest possible con- 
venience an extra copy of June issue. 
Alvan S. Stanley. 


MASSACHUSETTS z 
The Boston Chronicle with agents all over New 
England will cooperate with THE CRISIS in distri- 
bution. 

Alfred Haughton, Editor. 


MICHIGAN 


Please send me 50 extra copies, making a total of 
450 copies. 
Logan and Moulden. 


MISSISSIPPI 


I am very glad to be your agent because the money 
that I get from selling THE CRISIS helps me very 


much here in school. 
Willie Rollins. 
MINNESOTA 


Send me 5 more current issues. Make next order 
30 copies. 
William Engelson. 


MISSOURI 


Send me 75 copies for current month. I have been 
selling for 10 years. I am going to send for 100 


next month. 
Mrs. M. B. Befry. 


NEW JERSEY 


I am enclosing money for 60 copies. We are in- 
creasing our monthly sales. Every one taking it, is 
much pleased with the magazine. We are striving 
to place it in as many homes as possible. 

Mrs. Fannie L. J. Brown. 


NEW MEXICO 


We are distributing some copies to stimulate in 
terest as our community is small. 
E. D. Willlams, Pres. N.A.A.C.P. Branch. 


NEW YORK 


You may increase our order to 2500 coples of the 
current issue. We cover nearly 400 news stands and 
agents in and around New York City. We are 
working for inereased business. 

Maxwell Distributors. 


Send me 100 copies and 10 to my sub agent in 
Niagara Falls. 
William Campbell. 
NORTH CAROLINA 


I am not uneasy about selling the copies unsold 
I can sell them sometimes two and three months 
afterwards. I think the current issue is splendid. 
The beautiful cover is so attractive that I think it 
gained one or two new customers for me _ yesterday. 

Mrs. L. V. Mebane. 
OHIO 


Enclesed find money order for $15.00. I have been 
ill with flu. Send 75 copies this month. 


Mrs. Mary J. Stanfield. 
OKLAHOMA 


We have resolved to make your excellent magazine 
go here and we are sure you will be pleased with 
our efferts. Rush current issue to us. 

Theodore Baughman. 


THE CRISIS, 69 Fifth Ave., New York 


Please send me information as to 


idiaiihi LU Subscription rates 
U Advertising rates 


here Terms for Agents 


With this issue 


PENNSYLVANIA 
Mr. J. H. Gray won CRISIS medal 10 years ago 
for second largest sales by agents. Mr. Gray has 
been an agent for practically all the 20 years of THE 
CRISIS. As a_ distributor he has done a faithful 
job and the Negro periodicals owe him and many 

like him a great debt. 
THE CRISIS. 


RHODE ISLAND 

I am delighted that I have been able to sell all 
the copies which I ordered and wish to order 20 
more. I do not mean to lay down on the job and I 
highly appreciate the unfailing courtesy which I have 
received from THE CRISIS office. Sometimes I think 
our race needs our constant prayers that they may 
wake up,—and sometimes I think they need a club. 


Mrs. Annie M. Thompson. 

SOUTH, CAROLINA 
Ship 50 copies of September CRISIS. I really had 
forgotten to order until customers started calling for 
them. I have opened my news stand on Main Street 


and need more copies. 
John M. DeWees. 
TENNESSEE 
I thought I was not going to sell my copies after 
the newsdealers had them, but I goon found that they 
did not interfere and I sold out. Please send order 
a8 soon as they are off the press. 
Mrs. Savannah Martin. 
TEXAS 


When I told my friends I was selling THE CRISIS 
for the Paul Quin College library, I was able to 
double the amount of my sale for current month. 
Send books on enelosed list. 


VIRGINIA 


The Magazine grows better with each issue. 


Mrs. Carrie Steele Price. 

WASHINGTON 
Our heart is with THE CRISIS, assuring you that 
all bills will be promptly met and trusting to work 
up a bigger demand. During vacation period we 
shall start a few of the school girls soliciting sales. 


Robinson Drug Company. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
I hope you will be able to come here or send a 
good lecturer. This will make a good field if it is 
properly worked up. If we will begin now I think 
we can make good for the 20th year of CRISIS. 


R. J. Tucker. 
WISCONSIN 
I am a school girl. I thank you for your pa- 
tience. Enclosed find money order for $6.60. 
Miss Velma F. Bell. 
CANADA 


Kindly mail me 6 mere copies and increase my 


monthly supply. 
Charles Wilson. 
CANAL ZONE 
I have done so much at my own expense in circu- 
iating THE CRISIS in the West Indies, in New 
Zealand, Australia and other places, that I would 
willingly continue if I could afford to do so. 
George A. DeWeever. 
NASSAU N. P. BAHAMAS 
My knowledge of local conditions has prompted me 
to m-ke certain suggestions touching the circulation 
of CRISIS. I now look forward for a reply from you. 
Cleveland H. Reeves. 


Mrs. Irene L. Berry. 


es eee cee eee eee es oe ee me es oe oe ee oe 











noyances 
"you frequently will have. The wonder 


that with these and many of but need-. 


less blemishes one’s skin: 
and radiant and one’s m 
its best. : — 


mee 


7 walners pram 
umrewne tm 


ec 
aetr. 


t 
: 
: 
z 


every he 


Selling 

this and 

20 other 

Mme. C. J 

Walker Prepara- 

tions and giving 

Mme. C. J Walker 

Treatments offers a 

big money making op- 

portunity Write today 
for full details 


ee ork 








