


g 


DAVENPORT PUBLIC LIBRA 


CRISIS 


LANA 








E 








\X> fe; 


A 


AY 
Le’ 
_—— 






5 





acs 
i) 


ry 
Ps 





Nd 


ISON 


ad 





G 4 RR. 





a 


> 
er’ 


pen 
2 


Ae * 


4*» 











15 Cents a Copy 


PROGRESS 


AND 


== SERVICE 


Richmond, Va. 


PROGRESS 


The Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc., takes pleasure in announcing 
an increase in its Paid Up Capital Stock from $100,000 to $150,000. The 
added capital will make it possible for the corporation to further de- 
velop its business and field of operation, and likewise to afford greater 
security for its contracts. 


SERVICE 


The Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc., takes pride in the 3-in-1 
Unique Policy Contract it has developed and the service this contract 
renders to our group. The following testimonial gives an inkling of how 
the policyholders of the corporation respond to both the service and the 
protective feature of its contract. 


900 State St., 
April 30, 1928. 
Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc. 
Richmond, Va. 


Gentlemen : 

I wish you to know that I have been impressed, both with the value of my policy in provid- 
ing weekly benefits during my recent illness and the prompt and agreeable service given your 
representative. : ae 

Southern Aid Society of Va., Inc., is indeed both a comfort and a credit to the race. 

Respectfully yours, 
(Signed) Wrtt1am H. Dixon, M.D. 


Southern Aid Society of Virginia, Inc. 


Home Office: 525-7-9 N. 2nd Street, Richmond, Va. 


Insurance Against: 
SICKNESS, ACCIDENT and DEATH 
Operating in State of Virginia and District of Columbia 





June, 1928 





For Alma Mater 


NNUALLY at this season of the year the thoughts of many of us are stirred by 
A memories of happy friendships and sacred associations when the mail brings a call to a 

class reunion, alumni dinner, or announcement of another Commencement. Many of us 
go back in person to the Beloved Mother to whom we owe so much, to renew these friend- 
ships, to show reverence to those whose exactions made life such.a trial in the days now gone. 
For, admit it or not, the lives of all of us are marked by habits of thought and action forced 
upon us, perhaps unwillingly, during the years spent at school, college or university. 


For most teachers, lawyers, physicians, business and professional men and women of whatever 
kind, happiness and success in later life is due directly to the school, college, or university 
whose teachings we put to daily use. What practical evidence do we give of gratitude to Alma 
Mater? When we read of another million left to Yale, Harvard, or Princeton, are we reminded 
that five or ten thousand from one of us would be proportionately far more appreciated by 
one of our own schools? Payment of such a debt of gratitude is not a hard matter for many 
of us. 


Life Insurance has been designed to provide funds for just such a purpose. Perhaps we fail to 
realize this when we read of hundreds of thousands of dollars left to some Medical School, or 
another million left to some already large endowment fund. Our school officials who berate us 
for ingratitude may likewise be failing in appreciation of the practical means by which these 
funds are accumulated. For a hundred or a hundred and twenty-five dollars a year as a life 
insurance premium you can add five thousand dollars to the endowment fund of one of our 
own schools. How many are not able to do more than this! 


If only one hundred men and women this year would take this means of -repaying a debt of 
gratitude to Alma Mater, some five hundred thousand dollars would be added to the endow- 
ments of our own schools in the course of time. If only a thousand loyal alumni could be in- 
duced to set aside a hundred dollars a year for Life Insurance for the endowment of these 
schools, in the course of time and with small effort, some five million dollars would be pro- 
vided for perpetuating for incalculably greater usefulness the sources of our own aspirations 
and ideals. Do the memories of Alma Mater mean less than this to you? 


All of which leads us around to suggest, in our usual modest fashion, that the Victory Life 
Insurance Company has the facilities and will be more than glad to assist you in developing 
your own plans to this end. Please give full name, occupation, and date of birth in writing 


‘the Home Office. 


Victory Life 
Insurance Company 


Home Office: 3621 South State St. 
Chicago, IIl. 





oe 7 aaa $200,000.00 Capital and the Only Negro Company Operating Under the 
Viefory Life Insurance Company” Supervision of the New York Insurance Department.” 
AS THE FIRST NEGRO ORGANIZATION 
PERMITTED TO DO INSURANCE BUSINESS Policies may be secured from our agents or by mail anywhere 
UNDER THE RIGID REQUIREMENTS OF PHE : . 
STATE OF NEW YORK" in the United States 


| 
5 
i 
Ni 
iM 


Pe te ee 





a i sad ETN Ae 


sve kia in Doe 
piesa Price 


ee si 


Shi ih tole Tee AD BMC GLA Tac a 







THE TEACHER AND THE SUMMER SCHOOL 


THE TEACHER WHO CONSIDERS SUMMER SCHOOL IS A SERIOUS 
INDIVIDUAL WITH NO TIME TO WASTE. HE HAS A DEFINITE 
AIM IN VIEW: TO TAKE COURSES DEFINITELY LEADING TO A 
COLLEGE DEGREE OR WHICH WILL HAVE DEFINITE BEARING 
ON HIS EFFICIENCY AS A TEACHER AND ON HIS EARNING 
CAPACITY. THE FISK SUMMER SESSION IS DESIGNED FOR 
THIS TYPE OF TEACHER. IT IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED BY 
STATE SUPERINTENDENTS BECAUSE OF ITS EFFICIENT FAC- 
ULTY AND ITS WIDE VARIETY OF COURSES. THE NEEDS OF 
THE INDIVIDUAL STUDENT ARE STUDIED BY EXPERTS AND HE 
IS ADVISED HOW TO MAKE THE BEST USE OF THE SUMMER 
PERIOD. A LETTER TO THE DEAN OF THE UNIVERSITY 
STATING YOUR PURPOSE IN DOING SUMMER SCHCOL WORK 
WILL BRING A PROMPT REPLY INDICATING WHAT COURSES 
WILL BEST SUIT YOUR INDIVIDUAL NEEDS. A BULLETIN OF 
THE SUMMER SCHOOL IS NOW READY. 





Write to THE DEAN 
FISK UNIVERSITY NasHvILLe, TENNESSEE 





ot) +t) tt 






Complete 
Dining | 
Facilities | 






Accommodations for Ladies and Gentlemen who seek an atmosphere of quiet refinement 


ow 


There are openings for enterprising race women to increase their earnings as PORO Agents, 
employing either their spare or full time 


— =< Write for particulars — — : | 


PORO COLLEGE | 


4300 St. Ferdinand Ave. Annie M. Turnbo-Malone, Founder and Sole Owner St. Louis, Mo., U.S. A. 





















THE: Crisis 





Mer ERE eS ES a 










| 


mw 








THE CRISIS 


A Record of the Darker Races 


W. E. BurcHarpt Du Bors, Editor and Manager 








Volm ,Ne.6 Contents for June, 1928 — Wb No. a1 
Page 
COVER. Drawing. “A Jungle Nymph”. By Alan Freelon. 
eR MN MON NU ogo oc acs ool sold ee ed. ab logevntiaesescvcs ston 185 
FRONTISPIECE. Mrs. Yolande Du Bois Cullen .................. 186 
DAYS. A Prize Story. By Brenda Ray Moryck ................... 187 
THE AMERICAN UPLIFT IN HAITI. Illustrated. By Clement aes 
ae a a akiete ihe cine veg oe ntw slip wrecaiy se wee ss b:0'45 aoe oe 8 
SO THE GIRL MARRICG. Tlustrated .... 0.65 ccc cee cede ceee. 192 
THE N. A. A. C. P. BATTLE FRONT. Illustrated .............. 194 
THE LITTLE PAGE. Illustrated. By Effie Lee Newsome ........ 195 
THE POET’S CORNER. Illustrated. Poems by Marjorie Marshall, 
Claude McKay, Frank Horne, Georgia Douglas Johnson ........ 
ALONG THE COLOR LINE. Illustrated ........................ 197 
AE TRO Ie PRIDE oa oo ose cic cece tec sewcsccvreecesscees 202 
peeveceirs. Gr WW. H. B.. Da Bois... . 2.06. ccc i cteccisccscecess 203 
a a il aca, Susia a ies nah ae nev eutinele wdow ea ences 212 
HURCHILL has announced his o— 


new English budget of income and 
expense for next year. It relieves rich 
corporations from local taxation. 
There is much rejoicing in the Press 
which these corporations own.—Poin- 
caré counts a majority of 200 in the 
new French Parliament. The Com- 
munists lost heavily. There was no 
change of thought or wish in France 
but a successful manipulation of elec- 
tion results. The U. S. A. expects 
eleven and a quarter million of French 
blood taxes soon to help the poverty 
of our bond holders.—Egypt wants -to 
talk out loud. “Shut up by seven 
P. M., May Second” shouts England 
and sends two hundred million dol- 
lars worth of the latest and biggest 
machines for murdering human beings 
to back its demand. Egypt shut up. 
—The Ameer is in Poland where the 
peasants are starving to line his side- 
walks with beautiful carpets.—Mr. 
Lowenstein and fifteen secretaries and 
servants, together with some titled 
aristocrats from Belgium, are looking 
over super-power investments in the 
United States. The price of our elec- 
tricity will soon provide for a sixteenth 
servant and a duke.—May Day has 
come and gone. Bela Kun has been 


The Crisis is published monthly and copuroned by the National As- 
People at 69 Fifth Avenue, 


sociation for the Advancement of Colore 
New York, N. Y. 15 cents a copy, $1.50 a year. 


June, 1928 


oreign subscriptions $1.75. 
The date of expiration of each subscription is printed on the wrapper. 
When the subscription is due a blue renewal blank is enclosed. The address 

a subscriber may be changed as often as desired, but both the ald and 





As the Crow Flies 


ou ee 


jailed. Austria is making the world 
much safer for autocracy.—The divine 
right of Hollywood to supply films for 
the world has been vindicated by Amer- 
ican big business in France.—George 
Wilkins, with little splurge, has 
flown over the top of the world. Byrd 
is still walking around and advertis- 
ing what he is going to do.—In 
Nicaragua we have sent five more air- 
planes with plenty of shot and shell 
to advertise the blessing of American 
peace.—In China, the Southern Allies, 
the Northern forces and the Japanese, 
are fighting for Tsinan. The outlook 
for China is cloudy but at least the 
Chinese have for the first time been 
allowed a voice in Shanghai—We 
honor six foreign flyers with medals. 
We did not applaud the Frenchman 
and the Italian because the newspapers 
did not tell us to. We went quite 
wild over the Germans and the Irish- 
man because New York is the capital 
of Ireland.—There has been an elec- 
tion in Chicago. Everybody won ex- 
cept the taxpayers—The Boulder 


AR ge 


HE July Crisis will have 

an article on the League 

of Nations in its relation to the 

Darker races written by Mabel 

J.. Byrd. The*August niimber 

is the Education Number. We 

want pictures of all colored 

graduates who have won distinc- 

tion. Remember our monthly 
prizes. 


\aieommeeaniliger” 


Dam, designed to curb Colorado 
waters, either for cheap electricity or 
for monopoly, is still a major political 
question. The debate hinges on which 
of the two words should come: first.— 
The Presidential Campaign is becom- 
ing fast and merry. In return for sev- 
eral cabinet offices handed to the South, 
Mr. Smith will be nominated at 
Houston. In return for “hands-off 
corporations’, Mr. Hoover will be 
nominated in Kansas. If neither 
of these predictions prove true, some- 
thing equally dangerous will.—In 
German and French restaurants 
waiters pay for the privilege of re- 
ceiving tips. In some New York Cof- 
fee Shops girls pay ten dollars a week 
in order to collect alms at the rate of 
fifteen dollars a day. The Pullman 
Company will probably begin soon to 
charge the porters—Sharkey and 
Delaney fought. Delaney with eyes 
glazed, creeping on his knees “like a 
wounded animal in distress, with blood 
streaming from ear, mouth and nose”, 
lost to Sharkey, who returned to his 
corner “wildly weeping”. Ain’t Mexi- 
can Bull fights awful ?—Lindbergh 
looked at one and now We have been 
sentenced to the Smithsonian Institu- 
tion. Served us Orville Wright. 


new address must be given and two weeks’ notice is necessary. Manu 
scripts and drawings relating to colored people are desired. 
be accompanied by return postage and while THE Crisis uses every care i2 
assumes no responsibility for their safety in transit. Entered as second 
class matter November 2, 1910, at the post office at New York, WN. Y., 
under the act of March 8, 1879. 


hey mus? 


185 


Z +a 
a 
ua 
i 
} 
14 
3 
i 


“raid aoe C 


seam ae 63 


NE SCAR Rin WE CREE. PO eat Ora 


a Be es R ON 


CD a a 









Mrs. Yolande Du Bois Cullen 


THE CrRisIs - 

















< 
















Randolph went to see about the 

apartment.—A silver day.—A 
silver day in a silver month. Silver 
sunshine,—silver sky,—silver trees,— 
silver sidewalks,—and silver promises 
everywhere in the air. 


The Greek real estate agent shrewd- 
ly eyed his client and rubbed his hands 
appreciatively over the dingy radiator 
in his grubby little office.—Not in ap- 
preciation of its faint heat however,— 
no,—only in happy anticipation of se- 
curing at last a desirable tenant for 
his tiny, third-rate flat. 


Mrs. Randolph was desirable,— 
eminently so. In the first place she 
had money. Diamonds on her fingers, 
—not too many,—just enough to an- 
nounce wealth and good taste,—furs 
around her neck,—elegant fur,-—fine 
gloves which fitted hands that had 
never known work,—dainty shoes,—a 
soft, dark, silk dress occassionally dis- 
closed between the flaps of the hand- 
some, heavy coat, and a small beautiful 
hat, very attractively tilted to the left 
side of the head.—And serene eyes and 
quiet hands. 


The rent would never be late.— 
Money. 


And culture. Mrs. Randolph was a 
lady. The low, mellow voice accom- 
panied by the swift, direct look out of 
kindly, yet experienced, dark eyes,—the 
rare, flashing smile,—the well-chosen 
words of her language, the deliberate 
manner, at once charming and practi- 
cal, so easy and yet so elegant,—the 
whole general air about her bespoke the 
gentlewoman. Such a_ fine-looking 
woman too. Tall, handsome, statues- 
que, with curling raven’s-wing hair 
most unexpectedly streaked with gray, 
framing a face mature with worldly 
wisdom but still young in sympathy and 
outlook. Such magnificent bearing and 
carriage. Of course she was dark— 
very dark,—almost black enough to be 
anigger. French perhaps—or Spanish. 
Yes, that was it,—Spanish. That ac- 
counted for the slightly oriental ex- 
pression in the eyes, and the high- 
bridged nose and the protruding white 
teeth gleaming between the small 
pretty mouth. Of course. Spanish. 


z HERE was the day that Mrs. 


TENANT like that would raise 
the value of property all around, 
—lift the whole tone of the neighbor- 
hood. He sighed and rubbed his hands 
again, this time with appreciation and 
regret. What a pity he had placed the 
rent at such a low figure since she par- 


"June, 1928 


Days 


A Prize Story 


By BRENDA RAY MORYCK 


ticularly wanted to locate in that vicin- 
ity. 
“Your husband is a lawyer, Mrs. 
Randolph?” he inquired ingratiatingly. 

“Yes, he is a lawyer. His offices 
aren’t far from here,—in the Lawyer’s 
Building. That is why this is such a 
convenient location. We haven’t been 
married very long,” (this simply, and 
without any self-conscious smirking), 
“and I am a stranger here. I’d like to 
be near enough to his business so that 
he can come home to lunch. Then, 
too, this is near the Tubes.” 

Oh! of course. Five minutes walk— 
twenty-five cents taxi fare to the rapid 
transit line to New York. She would 
spend much time in New York. All 
fine ladies did. It would be some time 
before she discovered that the neighbor- 
hood was déclassé. By that dark time, 
the lease would be in operation and 
she would be used to the convenient 
nearness of all things desirable. 

Yes, she could have the flat—have it 
at once. 

“But I’d like to bring my husband 
first,” Mrs. Randolph demurred as the 
agent prepared to bind the bargain im- 
mediately. ‘Perhaps you wish to talk 
with him.” 

“No need—no need.” He waved his 
hands and laughed facetiously. “I 
know who is the boss in any family 
when I see the lady, I don’t need to 
see the husband. If you’re satisfied,— 
well,—the same here.” 

So Mrs. Randolph rented the apart- 
ment.—And went forth into the silver 
day, in the silver month, key in hand, 
to measure the windows for the dainty 
voile curtains she meant to put up, and 
to estimate the amount of old ivory 
enamel and floor stain and wax, and 
the number of rolls of imported paper 
she would need to make the little place 
over into her home,—her first home 
with her husband. 

A silver day in a silver month,—and 


silver promises everywhere in the air. 
— 


HERE was the day that the neigh- 
bors went to demand satisfaction 
from the landlord who had rented to 
niggers.—A black day. A black day in 
a treacherous month. Treacherous 
skies, and black clouds,—black clouds 
too sullen to rain,—leaden mood, men- 
acing, threatening, and hate everywhere 
in the air,—black looks and hate. 
Outrageous, insulting, unendurable. 
The very idea! Niggers living on the 
street. Right next door and across the 
street, and down the street and around 
the corner! Niggers! They'd see 


about this thing. Those niggers would 
either move or they’d know the reason 
why. What did Rocci think they were 
anyway, a bunch of wops or sheenies 
that they’d live in the same .row with 
niggers? Besides, they had their busi- 
ness interests to look out for. No pay- 
ng roomers would take lodgings on a 
block with niggers,—not even the most 
undesirable. And Mrs. Keenan had 
lost trade recently. The fellows and 
girls didn’t come in any more in the day 
like they used to,—only at night. And 
Mrs. O’Hennessy’s bedus sort of quit 
showing up before dark, and went out 
so quietly you couldn’t hear them, 
which was a bad sign. They were al- 
ways quiet when they didn’t get what 
they wanted or quite all they wanted. 
Now it was niggers that had scared 
them. As for Mr. Schlitski and the 
still in his cellar—! All that good 
home brew! Still was right since that 
damned nigger lawyer had moved into 
the block. Gosh! what was the coun- 
try coming to? It must be darned 
hard up when it had to get a nigger 
for assistant district attorney. 

They’d see. 

“Rocci thought he was puttin’ one 
over on us,—the damned skunk!” Mrs. 
Heery announced angrily to Mrs. 
O’Kelley as she jabbed a gaudy, brass 
hat-pin into a loud, cheap hat, and 
jammed it down rakishly over a some- 
what bleery blue eye. “I smelt a rat 
the minute I put my peepers on the 
woman. I sez to Mick that night 
when he come home, ‘Gosh, there’s a 
swell-lookin’ dame took Rocci’s empty 
flat at 68.’ ‘Yea’ he answers, kind o’ 
disinterested like. You know Mick. 
‘Any kids?’ Mick’s death on kids. ‘Not 
so’s you'd notice ’em,’ sez I. ‘I ain‘t 
seen nobody but her yit. But b’lieve 
me, Kid, somepun’s wrong when a 
dame what kin wear them cloes an’ 
has got them manners moves into a 
little flat like that in this here neigh- 
borhood.’ ” 


66 re !”. sniffed Mrs. O’Kel- 
ley. ‘This neighborhood ain’t 
so bad. I’ve seen lots worse,—over in 
Jew town an’ out in little Italy. When 
you look up an’ down this here street 
an’ don’t know nuthin’ about it, it 
looks swell as it ever was. That’s why 
I like it. It looks classy.” 

“Yea, looks!’ Mrs. Heery gave a 
shrill guffaw and poked her companion 
familiarly. “But me an’ you knows 
diffrunt. We lives here. But we ain’t 
a-goner have the tone spoiled by nig- 
gers, I’ll tell the world. Gosh! when I 


187 






S25 inn abicibshin at Denote BE 


Saeetige 


als RIEDEL LPR LIR 


mings coin ade tigeah LUM I 


Re WARP AD eh “Dem 5 


PAs POETS eS 


edie VIER 








seen that nigger husband o’ hers, I 
near died. An’ Mick wanted to go 
right down an’ knock Rocci’s block 
off, only I wouldn’t let him.” 

“Yea, this is much better. Do it 
dignified. All of us together,—a dele- 
gation like,—protestin’ against insult. 
Jim was fer callin’ out the Ku Klux 
right away. He’s Grand Goblin of 
the branch you know, but I sez we 
don’t want to give this thing too much 
air. It'll hurt the roomers an’ then,— 
well, we don’t want the p’lice snoopin’ 
around here. Sometimes they take up 
fer these niggers. Sure! An’ since the 
coon’s got a official position too. Jim 
sez he stands in down at the City 
Hall.” 

Mrs. Heery snapped shut the clasp 
on her yellow fur neck-piece and jerked 
aside the tawdry lace curtains screen- 
ing her wide second-story window. 
“‘That’s neither here nor there,” she 
tossed over her sharp little shoulder. 
“TI ain’t half so mad at the niggers as 
I am at Rocci fer puttin’ ’em in. My 
Gawd! was it midnight when he looked 
at the man? I kin see where he got 
took in. on the woman, especially with 
them cloes and that air. Even Dutchy 
says he can’t believe she’s a nigger. He 
says she talks an’ acts just like them 
swells down on Clinton Avenue when 
he used to keep a shop down there be- 
fore it went sheeney and she buys the 
same kind o’ meat. But my Gawd! 
her husband—! Come on,—Mrs. 
Keenan and Mrs. Stebbins and Mrs. 
Schmidt is all ready, an’ the rest’ll be 
there. All except that damn dago. 
Said he wouldn’t join in. Said he saw 
them all the time and their company 
an’ they was nice people,—kind and 
like fine ladies in his country. His 
country! Gosh, that’s what comes o’ 
lettin’ scum o’ the earth run all over 
the United States.” 


66 E always did look simple to 

me. Always bowin’ an’ grin- 
nin’. He did good work though, an’ 
he’s cheap. 

“Yea, but nary a shoe o’ mine will he 
ever remember fixin’ fer me again.— 
Look they’re goin’. Gosh! wait ’till 
we git through with Rocci, the rotten 
bum.” 

“What can you expect?” asked Mrs. 
O’Kelley with rhetorical airiness, as she 
flipped a dirty powder-puff against a 
thin turn-up oblong-tipped nose and 
gave a final squirt of cheap perfume 
to some frizzled ash-blonde hair. 
“‘Rocci’s nothin’ but a dirty foreigner 
hisself. Maybe he did it a purpose.” 

“Well, we'll see.” 

So the notice to move was angrily 
served.—And Mr. Randolph went 
blackly forth to court to battle about 
his lease while Mrs. Randolph re- 
mained at home and cried.—Her cozy 


188 


little apartment which love and taste 
and money had made so beautiful,— 
her first home with her husband! 

A black day. A black day in a 
treacherous month and hate and evil 
everywhere—black looks and hate. 


HEN there was the day that lovely 
Mrs. Leighton came to call,—a 
golden day—and the neighbors decided 
that those colored people needn’t move. 
A golden day in a glorious month. 
Golden  sunshine,—pink-blue sky,— 
yellow-green buds, and glowing mood. 
Precious mood and radiant sky—and 
golden promises in the air. 

And lovely Mrs. Leighton driving up 
to call. An exquisite woman alto- 
gether,—patrician from the smart, lit- 
tle, black silk hat, covering the masses 
of glorious gold-brown hair with cop- 
per glints, to the daintily shod, high- 
arched feet,—fair-skinned, wistful- 
eyed, sweet-mouthed,—sweet. 

‘Mrs. O’Kelley, sweeping off the 
front; spied her first and rang Mrs. 
Heery’s bell. And Mrs. Heery called 
up Mrs. Stebbins and left it to her to 
tip off the rest of the neighborhood as 
to the worthwhileness of suspending 
all regular afternoon operations in or- 
der to keep a sharp look-out front, be- 
fore she accepted the box seat next to 
Mrs. O’Kelley in the latter’s parlor 
bay window. 

Those colored people couldn’t be 
just ordinary niggers after all. Not 
when they had elegant white people 
like that coming to see them. Of 
course, Mrs. Leighton was white. Cer- 
tainly. She had a nigger chauffeur and 
niggers didn’t work for other niggers. 


HEN too, there was that time be- 

fore when she came in the taxi 
and that grand looking man and an- 
other fine lady had come with her. The 
dago across the way had told them 
Mrs. Randolph had gone away,—he 
was always mixing himself up in other 
people’s business, trying to please,— 
bowing and grinning from his shop win- 
dow like a silly ape. They had written a 
note and then walked leisurely away. 
Mrs. Keenan had followed them and 
they had gone to the Robert Treat and 
had dinner. Niggers weren’t allowed 
to put their peepers inside the door 
there,—not even as bell-hops. Mrs. 
Keenan had engaged the table next 
to theirs so she could hear them talk 
and gee! they were some swell. Of 
course, she was white. Cadillac car, 
nigger chauffeur, astrakan coat, kolin- 
sky trimming! Some rich! 

“They must be terrible intimate,” 
Mrs. O’Kelley smacked out as she 
wallowed the huge gaub of gum under 
her upper lip to the left jaw teeth and 
rocked to and fro complacently. “She 
comes here quite often. Noo Yawk 
license too.” 








“Yea,” responded Mrs. Heery te. 
flectively. “It’s a swell car, sure. An’ 
that fur coat! I priced ’em. Fifteen 
and eighteen hundred dollars. Salis. 
bury-Jacobson’s the only place that car- 
ries ’em in this burg.” 

“IT mean the whole she-bang looks 
good, car standin’ in the street,—coon 
sittin’ on the front an’ that swell dame 
on the stoop. ’Course,:all her com- 
pany’s been good-lookin’ an’ some of 
‘em mighty near white, too, an’ never 
nothin’ dirty or suspicious-like about 
their actions either.” 

“Yea. It makes the street look good. 
Anyone comin’ along an’ seein’ this 
here friend o’ hers goin’ in an’ out so 
often would think all the swells that 
used to live here didn’t move away 
after all.—Listen, Celia,—look, here 
they both come! Now ain’t they a 
grand sight!—Umph! Look at the 
coon hold open that door! My Gawd! 
see him touch his cap to her too! Gosh! 
—I wonder where they’re goin’.” 

“Noo Yawk, you bet cher life!” 

“Yea—mos’ likely.” 


ILENCE for some time afterwards. 

A slackening of the violent gum- 

chewing and a softening of the raucous 

squeaking of the rocker. Silence and 
much thinking. 

Then: 

“Say Celia,—listen,” slowly from 
Mrs. O’Kelley. “I been thinkin’ may- 
be Rocci wasn’t such a dumb fool after 
all for puttin’ ’em in. Maybe he was 
lyin’ when he said he never seen the 
husband ’till afterwards, an’ thought 
the woman was Spanish.” 

“Yea,” in a squelched tone from 
Mrs. Heery. “I bin thinkin’ the same 
thing. So’s Mick.” 

“Maybe we was kind o’ hasty-like 
when we made Rocci serve ’em notice,” 
timidly ventured again by Mrs. 
O’Kelley. “Jim sez her husband knows 
O’Hara an’ O'Toole an’ Teeling down 
at the City Hall an’ they all say he’s a 
good fellow.—What d’ye say we tell 
Rocci—.” 

“Yea, let’s.” 

So the Randolphs were told that 
they needn’t go,—a golden day. A 
golden day in a glorious month. They 
needn’t move because the neighbors had 
decided that high class colored people 
wouldn’t ruin the block. Of course, 
they hadn’t known what they would be 
like. Down where they came from 
niggers did nothing but wield razors 
and drink booze. The Randolphs were 
different. So clean and quiet and so 
refined.—Yes,—they might stay. 


GOLDEN day. A golden day in 

a lovely month, and _ radiance 

everywhere in the air,—radiance and 
tolerant feeling. 

(Will you please turn to page 206) 


Tue Crisis 









hat 


ley 
ad 
ple 
‘Se, 

be 
om 
ors 
ere 

sO 


nce 


ind 





VI. 
HY did Occupation & Uplift 


come in? As a capitalistic em- 
pire, we needed surplus markets; and 
Haiti lay at our side entrance. More- 
over, it fell within the allotted sphere 
of influence of the National City Bank 
of New York. The history of Haiti 
during the first quarter of the twen- 
tieth century is a footnote to the an- 
nals of that bank. 

Haiti’s debt, before the World War, 
was owed to France, and amounted to 
40,000,000 francs. By September, 
1922, this had increased to 87,023,425 
francs, valued at the time, due to the 
depreciation of the franc, at $6,971,874 
in American currency.® Haiti wished 
to pay off this debt, taking advantage 
of the low state of the franc. The 
National City Bank arranged, with the 
French bankers, to inherit their role. 
Out of the impenetrable forest of finan- 
cial ingenuity, Haiti emerges with a 
debt in the neighborhood of $40,000,- 
000,77 with various mismanaged pro- 
jects, such as the Port-au-Prince to 
Cape Haitien railway, no more built 
today than the ferry between Uper- 
nivik and Point Barrow, also paying 
toll to the same bank. The Banque 
Nationale d’Haiti became a willing 
Jonah to the whale activities of the 
New York institution. 

The distribution of the budgets in 
1914 and 1926 needs no comment. In 
1914, with a population of more than 
two million Haitians, 31,000,000 
gourdes was devoted to internal ex- 
penditures. The 1926 budget, with 
the gourde stabilized at 20c American, 
provides : 


- Gourdes 

American functionaries 

and their offices.... 13,169,392.60 
Charges on external 

Se eee 11,336,872.28 
Internal expenditures 

exclusive of Ameri- 

can functionaries ... 8,475,008.99 
Of the total 1926 budget of 32,981,- 
273.87 gourdes, less than nine million 
gourdes goes to internal expenditures; 
as contrasted with the 31,000,000 
gourdes in 1914.8 


*Memorandum of Perceval Thoby, President of 
the Union Patriotique d’Haiti, read in the 
United States Senate, on March 10, 1926, by 
Senator King of Utah. o. %. 


TAn Answer, by Thoby, already cited. p. 5. 


‘Finances D’Haiti. La Crise Fconomique. By 
eorges Séjourné. Port-au-Prince, 1926. 


June, 1928 


The American Uplift in Haiti 


By CLEMENT WOOD 





i= 
Second Installment of an In- 
vestigation Made for THE 
Crisis in 1928 


soe ——=-- 





OW did Occupation & Uplift 

come in? In about four years, 
before 1915, Haiti had six or more 
presidents; ending in the murder of 
President Sam, after one of his sub- 
ordinates had ordered the execution of 
140 political prisoners in a courtyard 
of the jail at Port-au-Prince. With 
all due respects to that dyspeptic insti- 
tution called democracy, I hold, con- 
trary to the nationalists, that this called 
for intervention—for a control of the 
polls, to make sure of a fair election; 
tor assistance in maintaining order, in 
the interim between elections; for a 
withdrawal, after order was secured. 


The nationalists insist that Ameri- 
can capital instigated and in part fi- 
nanced the various upsets in Haiti just 
prior to 1915; as it has done in Mexico 
and other lands promising rich booty. 
This is doubtless in part true; buried 
facts, tending to establish this, are con- 
stantly being exhumed. 

The election of a Haitian president, 
according to the successive constitu- 
tions, is in the hands of the Haitian 
Congress, which in turn is elected by 
the people. Since shortly after 1915, 
there has been no election held in 
Haiti; nor, indeed, any session of the 
Congress. Our Marine General 
Smedley C. Butler dissolved the Con- 
gress, with drawn bayonets, in the days 
when he was the officer in charge there. 
The Occupation & Uplift has seen to 
it that there has been no Congress and 
no election since.° 


NSTEAD, picking of a president is 

now illegally exercised by the Coun- 
cil of State. This group, similar to 
our president’s cabinet, originated as 
a temporary body organized by presi- 
dential decree in 1916.1° The presi- 
dent handpicks the council; and it, in 
turn, in shrewd gratitude, continues 
him in office. President Dartignave, 
originator of this closed corporation 
electing, went out in 1922, a casualty 
of a secret night meeting of 14 mem- 
bers, or a quorum, of the Council of 

® Memorandum, by Thoby, already cited. p. 8. 


10 Memorandum, by Thoby, already cited. p. 2. 


State, called by Louis Borno, one of 
its members, an ineligible candidate. 
Borno is the son of a French Negro 
from Guadaloupe; the constitutions all 
provide that the president must be a 
Haitian, and the son of a Haitian. 
Borno’s father’ was not naturalized for 
nine years after the present president’s 
birth; Borno’s brother, and all but two 


of his nephews, ‘are registered at the | 
French Legation in Haiti as French > 


citizens: the two exceptions being 
nephews naturalized as Haitians." 


S late as 1926, the Haitian na- 

tionalists sought to insist upon 
an election, as provided for in their 
constitution. An American Marine 
officer prevented this, ignoring an or- 
der of the Haitian courts requiring that 
the polls be opened. In the town of 
Leogane, the American-officered gend- 
armerie fired on the voters, wounding 
several.}? 


Once Americans were sensitive about 
taxation without representation. Now 
they force this upon a neighboring re- 
public, at the dictate of affected Ameri- 
can financial interests. 


How do Occupation & Uplift f- 
nance themselves? First of all, Fi- 
nancial Adviser Cumberland has in- 
creased the customs duties. A mer- 
chant pays these high duties, pro-rates 
them over his stock of goods, and dis- 
poses of the merchandise; whereupon, 
the Customs Office sends him a state- 
ment, months afterwards, for Supple- 
mentary Duties on the same goods. 
This entails anarchy in business, and 
either bankruptcy or excessive specula- 
tive profiteering, in an endeavor to an- 
ticipate the future’s Supplementary 
Duties.?® 


A few examples, in small, of how 
these duties work. A captain of 
Marines received an annual gift from 
the hospital at Washington with which 
he had once been officially connected. 
The gift consisted of less than a dol- 


11 Memorandum, by Thoby, already cited, pp. 
2, 3. This contains a full statement of the matter. 
In the main cemetery of Port-au-Prince, we saw 
the grave of Borno’s father, the tombstone stating 
that he was a native of Guadaloupe. One of the 
two nephews last referred to is at present Haitian 
consul in New York City. 


12 Memorandum, by Thoby, pp. 4 and 5, already 
cited, gives this in full. 


18 As I_write, I have before me a slip, Ré- 
publique D’Haiti, Service des Douanes, for sup- 
plementary duty on “Il livre non denomme,” 


‘amounting to 0.20 gourdes, or four cents, charged 


against the owner a month after he received the 
book, and paid the original duty. A full discus- 
sion appears in Memorandum, by Thoby, already 
cited, page 7. 


189 


























ne 
Am 
“4 
ae 


1 SORA 


amma er enaen 


cRiele: dik mae ae oP 


(SLED Gar so 


Bal 


A Pe wale errenet 


SEAR Oiler yaoi rit. <= 


IOP LTT 


seen 


omnes 
ape aie --3- 


i 
a 
















































lar’s worth of toilet preparations. He 
had to pay a duty of $4.20 on this. 
The wife of a Chief Petty Officer sent 
from Norfolk less than three dollars’ 
worth of silk sox to her husband, then 
in Haiti. The duty paid was $4.50. 
On opening the package, it was found 
that rats aboard the Kittery, the gov- 
ernment transport, had eaten off the 
soles of the sox. Three months later, 
his paymaster informed the officer that 
he had deducted from the officer’s sal- 
ary a supplementary duty of $1.20 on 
the same sole-less sox. A girl sent 
her photograph to a young Marine; 
the duty on this was fixed at $16.00. 
Feeling that no return of the picture 
could be explained, he paid the duty. 
The duties on typewriters, automobiles, 
and all forms of machinery are exorbi- 


VIL. 


ET us turn to education, that cor- 

nerstone of future failure. Upper 
class Haitians were and are educated 
in Europe: the culture of a Pierre 
Hudicourt, a Perceval Thoby, an 
Etienne Mathon, a Pauleus Sannon, or 
of thousands of others, being as su- 
perior to that of Calvin Coolidge as 
the culture of Bertrand Russell to that 
of Elmer Gantry. 


The lower class Haitians are edu- 
cated in the local schools. The gov- 
ernment, boasting of its economy, re- 
cently published a list of schools it had 
discontinued, teachers it had eliminated, 
and schools it had combined.*® 

Instead of this, agricultural schools, 
officered by Americans, have been in- 


do not care to become farmers, cr even 
to teach the hill farmers; every upper 
class Haitian becomes a professional 
man. The teachers, by the way, are 
Americans, ignorant of French; they 
teach through interpreters." 

Modern scientific agriculture — 
while wholesale deforestration, to fuel 
the primitive Hasco train engines, goes 
on. 
“V’ve done .a lot for Haiti,” Presj- 
dent Borno, cultured and of pleasing 
appearance, said to me. “I’ve just had 
some strawberry plants and peach trees 
planted up in the mountains.” This 
is in the tropics: his achievement is as 
sound as if Coolidge had set out man- 
goes in the Black Hills of South Da- 
kota. 

Supplementary education, by some 


Bal Mascarade of the Ciub Mariani, Port-au-Prince, Haiti 


tant. A package of 15c American 
cigarettes sells in Haiti for 35c; the 
only gouging is done by the customs 
department. Excellent Haitian cigar- 
ettes sell at 4c per package of twenty. 


HE money thus secured pays the 

various tolls exacted by the Na- 
tional City Bank; the exorbitant sal- 
aries of American officials quartered 
upon the Haitians; the supplementary 
salaries paid to officers of the American 
Marines serving as officers of the 
Haitian gendarmerie; the $52,706.60 
drawn by Borno, for salary, household, 
stables, automobile expenses, secret ser- 
vice, and the like, plus $5,000 to him 
and his cabinet for trip expenses ;** the 
$308,012 for uplift annually in agri- 
cultural education; and other super- 
imposed costs of the Up!tift. 
4 Bulletins Officiel, République d’Haiti, 


1927; and also Answer, by Thoby, already cited, 
p. 2. for this and the item following. 


190 





1928. 


stalled. Pupils at these schools are 
paid, and paid well, to attend. For 
the 100,000 pupils in the ordinary 
schools, not yet under the Uplift, 
2,000,000 gourdes is provided in the 
budget; for the few hundreds—about 
one-thirtieth as many—in these agri- 
cultural schools, 2,500,000 gourdes is 
provided. The salary of the teacher 
in the ordinary schools is from $4 to 
$6 a month; that of the similar teacher 
in the agricultural schools, $20 and up 
a month.** The pupils in the agri- 
cultural schools are drawn largely or 
wholly from city children, including 
many relatives of-the Bornites. When 
these children have finished the courses, 
and pocketed their last payments, they 





_% Bulletins Officiel du Departement de I’Instruc- 
tion Publique, Port-au-Prince, 1924-1926. An An- 
swer, by oby, already cited, pp. 1-3, 


Les Ecoles dépendant du Département de 
l’Instruction Publique, in urrier Haitien, 
Port-au-Prince, Mercredi 30—Jeudi 31 Mars 1927. 


heaven-sent inspiration, is furnished the 
adult peasants by radio. A_ loud 
speaker has been installed in the midst 
of the babel of the open-air market at 
Port-au-Prince, with its thousands of 
noisily bickering vendors and _pur- 
chasers. Through this, lectures on 
modern agriculture and Haitian eco- 
nomics are occasionally delivered. The 
one time at which we heard this radio 
functioning, it was rendering “Bye Bye 
Blackbird” from some American sta- 
tion. No one, except us, paid any at- 
tention to this. We knew it was not 
broadcast from Haiti; for it has been 
banned, along with “Old Black Joe,” 
“The Darktown Strutters Ball,” and 
all songs referring to Negroes, since 
the official band unfortunately struck 
into it, at the very moment that Presi- 





7 An Answer, by Thoby, already cited. (p. 3.) 
fer, this and the item concerning education by 
radio. 


THE Crisis 








I 

: 
ie 
+ 














ven 
pper 
onal 

are 
they 


Biome 
fuel 
goes 


resi- 
sing 
had 
Tees 
This 


iS as 


nan- 


adio 
Bye 
sta- 
r at- 
not 


levee aS ee 3 





dent Borno drove away from the cere- 
mony of laying the cornerstone ali a 
new hospital building. 

VIII. 


OWN to 1918, foreigners couid 
D not own land in Haiti. The 
constitution of that Occupied year 
granted this right, to terminate five 
years after the foreigners left the coun- 
try, or their corporations ceased to 
function. Since 1925, under pressure 
of the High Commissioner, foreigners 
are allowed to hold land on the same 
terms as Haitians. 

The purpose of the prohibition was 
to allow the peasants to continue to 
farm their own lands, and to prevent 
the formation of a rural proletariat. 
Few of the natives can produce writ- 
ten titles to their lands, held a hundred 
or more years in the family without 
challenge. Now the Occupation & Up- 
lift and the Bornites are challenging 
the possessors to produce their titles, 
on penalty of confiscation. Confiscated 
lands are easily acquired by such cor- 
porations as the pineapple trust in the 
north, and the Hasco ( Haitian-Ameri- 
can Sugar Company) in the south.’* 

Lands used for political meetings un- 
friendly to the Occupation & Uplift 
and Borno are being confiscated simi- 
larly. This is now happening to the 
Carrié property, owned by the family 
of the president of the Union Patri- 
otique.® Many of the judges, who 
hold office for life, refuse to share in 
this-legalized theft; the process of ab- 
sorbing the courts, by the Occupation 
& Uplift, is thriving. Borno has just 
suppressed the Court of First Instance 
of the District of Aquin, in the south; 
and next year, perhaps, newly ap- 
pointed judges there will be properly 
subservient.?° 


MARINE sergeant, ranking as 

captain in the gendarmerie, acts 
as preliminary judge in criminal mat- 
ters. We attended his court, admired 
his good-natured control, and were 
especially impressed by one case. An 
elderly Haitian woman possessed a 
sow, and no boar; accordingly, she 
took her sow to the boar of an elderly 
Haitian man, promising him one of the 
farrow of pigs in payment. Three pigs 
were born; she refused to surrender 
any; and the man haled her to court. 
Her defense was that the service had 
been unsatisfactory, and that she had 
had to send her sow to another boar. 
The American judge was called upon 
to decide the paternity of the young 
pig. This land’s judicature requires 


—_— 


%An Answer, by Thoby, already cited. p. 1. 
Memorandum, by Thoby, already cited, pp. 5, 6. 
_¥La famille Carrie trainee sur le banc correc- 
tional par le Gouvernement. Le Nouvelliste, Port- 
au-Prince, Mercredi 27 Avril 1927. See also 
Courrier Haitien and Le Temps, of the same date. 

e recent files of the three Port-au-Prince 
newspapers referred to are full of this matter, as 
are both statements by M. Thoby. 


June, 1928 


the subtlety of a super-Solomon, in- 
stead of the brains of an American 
Marine. 

Confiscation of titles, plus the ruin- 
ous financial policy, heaviest on the 
peasants, sends them emigrating to the 
sugar fields of Cuba. For a long time, 
relatives of Borno received so much per 
head for each emigré. In 1924, 21,013 
emigrated, less than 7,000 returning. 
In 1925, the emigres exceeded 30,000. 
Altogether, some 150,000 peasants 
have lost in this fashion.?* 


IX. 


HE uplift in civil rights is the most 

unpopular of all. Borno is so sen- 
sitive to criticism, that, in the last three 
years, more than 27 journalists have 
been imprisoned for various forms of 
lese majesty.?? 

At times these writers have been 
held six to seven months in jail, with- 
out trial. The spy system is universal. 
Members of the Union Patriotique 
recognize the spies detailed to attend 
their meetings. 


AITI is definitely under the 

American flag; yet, so little does 
our Constitution associate with this, 
that in March of this year an Ameri- 
can senator, W. H. King of Utah, 
was forbidden to enter the country by 
Borno, acting after consultation with 
High Commissioner Russell. The ad- 
ministration was in a panic at King’s 
announced intention of paying them 
a visit; for he had already criticized 
some of the matters opened here. 
Senator King at this time was in Santo 
Domingo, the adjacent half of the 
island. Squads of Haitian gendarm- 
erie, officered by Americans, were sent 
out, to build log barricades across 
every road entering Haiti from Santo 
Domingo; these were reinforced with 
barbed wire, to prevent forcible 
entry.7* 

Needless to say, the picture in 
Borno’s mind, of an American senator 
audaciously charging through barri- 
cades, barbed wire, and deployed gen- 
darmerie, did not materialize. This 
Zenith official stupidity achieved only 
one positive thing: it broadcast to the 
world that Haiti had something vital 
to hide, as, of course, every land has. 

At the same time, Senator Shipstead 
was in Haiti, the guest of Colonel 
Harleigh of the Marines, ranking as 
General of the Gendarmerie. 

He met none of the Haitian nation- 
alist leaders ; and when, at their request, 
I tried to arrange for him to meet them, 





"These figures are from the Memorandum of 
M. Thoby, p. 6, already cited. M. Séjourné, in 
Finances d’Haiti, already cited, on p. 18, gives 
861,000 as the number of Haitian peasants who 
have emigrated to both Cuba and Santo Domingo. 

22See recent files of the three Port-au-Prince 
newspapers referred to; also both writings by M. 


They. 
*8Le Nouvelliste, Port-au-Prince, especially the 
issues of 16, 17, and 18 Mars, 1927. 


he told me that all of his time was 
preempted by his host’s absorbing 
schedule of entertainment. He told me 
that he had met many Haitians: peas- 
ants, extremely polite, who had wel- 
comed him and his wife with “Bon 
jour, blanc.” ‘This was as if a distin- 
guished foreign visitor to America had 
met only California fruit pickers, 
Minnesota miners, and New Orleans 
dock laborers, and regarded these as 
representative Americans. 


X. 
[ HOLD no blanket brief for the 


nationalists. Many of them are 
disgruntled office-holders out of a job. 
No one exhibits a statemanlike con- 
ception of the proposition that the 
prosperity of a country requires the 
liberation, in every sense, of all the 
people: the equalization of education 
and opportunity among every Haitian. 
The islanders should not be indicted, 
of course, for failings we share. 

Nor is it inevitable that the land, 
relieved of the Occupation and Uplift, 
would lift to even a tolerable Utopia. 
It might even descend to the govern- 
mental level of Chicago, Pennsylvania, 
Indiana, or some Nordic-ridden South- 
ern state. 

But surely the Haitians, as human 
beings, are entitled to make their own 
blunders in their own way. A wary 
eye on them, with perhaps an enforced 
closed season against killing presidents 
every six years, with an open sabbati- 
cal, might go far. 

Bullying of small powers is not flat- 
tering to the greater: it indicates a 
suspicion that these can not govern 
themselves. And, of course, this is 
written in the full knowledge that the 
Occupation and Uplift will function 
on unimpeded. If imperialism is a 
necessary disease of capitalistic - de- 
mocracy, the uneasy stirrings of vicar- 
iously pained critics are as inevitable. 
There is no need for the flea in the tail 
of the dog to aspire to caninity. 


“From the point of view of United 
States interests, in the most ‘hard- 
boiled’ sense, there is little to be said 
for the continuance of our Occupation 
of Haiti. American investments there 
have in general not proved a source of 
legitimate profits, but of loss... . 

“From the point of view of Haiti’s 
interests, it is not true that we are in 
Haiti solely as disinterested benefac- 
tors, nor that we can show clean hands 
in our business dealings there. If our 
officials have tried to benefit the people 
of Haiti, (as we believe they have), 
it is also true that the Occupation has 
cared for American financial interests 
there, of a none too creditable sort, 
at the expense of our poor and weak 
neighbor.” 

—American Committee of Six 


191 





4 

a 

18 
“a 

a) 
4 
4 
% 
oe 
i 


Gaersereee 
son 8a Sy 3 RY 


kia Teele 












































HE problem of marriage among 

our present American Negroes, is 
a difficult one. On the one hand go 
conflicting philosophies: should we 
black folk breed children or commit 
biological suicide? On the other, 
should we seek larger sex freedom or 
closer conventional rules? Should we 
guide and mate our children like the 
French or leave the whole matter of 
sex intermingling to the chance of the 
street, like Americans? These are 
puzzling questions and all the more so 
because we do not often honestly face 
them. 

I was a little startled when 
came father of a girl. I scented far- 
off difficulties. But she became soon a 
round little bunch of Joy: plump and 
jolly, full of smiles and fun—a flash of 
twinkling legs and bubbling mischief. 
Always there on the broad campus of 
Atlanta University she was in scrapes 
and escapades—how many I never 
dreamed until years, after: running 
away from her sleepy nurse; riding o!d 
Billy, the sage and dignified draft 
horse; climbing walls;. bullying the 
Matron; cajoling the cooks and becom- 
ing the thoroughly spoiled and im- 
measurably loved Baby of the Campus. 
How far the spoiling had gone I be- 
came suddenly aware one summer, 


I be- 


So The Girl Marries 


when we stopped a while to breathe 
the salt sea air at Atlantic City. This 
tot of four years marched beside me 
down the Boardwalk amid the un- 
moved and almost unnoticing crowd. 
She was puzzled. Never before in her 
memory had the world treated her 
quite so indifferently. 

“Papa,” she exclaimed at last, im- 
patiently, “I guess they don’t know I’m 
here!” 


S the Girl grew so grew her prob- 
lems: School; Multiplication 
Tables; Playmates; Latin; Clothes— 
Boys! No sooner had we faced one 
than the other loomed, the last ling- 
ered—the next threatened. She went 
to Kindergarten with her playmates of 
the Campus—kids and half-grown-ups. 
The half-grown-ups, Normal students, 
did me the special courtesy of letting 
the Girl dawdle and play and cut up. 
So when she came at the age of ten 
to the Ethical Culture School in New 
York there loomed the unlearned 
Multiplication Table; and a time we 
had! For despite all proposals of 
“letting the Child develop as it Will!’”, 
she must learn to read and count; and 
the schoo! taught her—but at a price! 
Then came the days of gawky 
growth; the impossible children of the 





Tue Bripe aND Her ATTENDANTS 





street; someone to play with; wild 
tears at going to bed; excursions. 
games—and far, far in the offing, the 
shadow of the Fear of the Color Line. 

I had a Grand Idea. Before the 
time loomed—before the Hurt pierced 
and lingered and festered, off to Enz- 
land she should go for high school and 
come back armed with manners and 
knowledge, cap-a-pie, to fight Ameri- 
can race hate and insult. Off the Gir} 
went to Bedale’s, just as war thun- 
dered in the world. As a professoz of 
Economics and History, I knew the 
war would be short—a few months. 
So away went Mother and Girl. Two 
inighty years rolled turbulently by and 
back came both through the Submarine 
Zone. The Girl had grown. She was 
a reticent stranger with whom soul- 
revealing converse was difficult. | 
found myself groping for continual in- 
troductions. 


HEN came Latin. The English 

teacher talked Latin and his class at 
Bedale’s romped with Caesar through 
a living Gallia. —Thhe American teacher 
in the Brooklyn Girl’s High did not 
even talk English and regarded Latin 
as a crossword puzzle with three inches 
of daily solution. “Decline Stella!”; 
“Conjugate Amo’’; “What is the sub- 





Tx2 Misses Roberta Bosley, Ruth McGhee, Anna Welmon, Harriet Pickens, Etta Burwell, Helen Reynolds, Thelma Garland, Hilda 
Anderson, Alice Mundy, Gladys Byram, Ruth DeMond, Chita McCard, Kathryn McCracken, Mae Wright and Constance Murphy; 
together with Miss Margaret Welmon, Maid of Honor; and the Misses Annie Brown and Margaret Pennypacker, Soloists 


192 








THE Crisis 














. 


Le IRE. OF SEE 









glish 
ASS at 
ough 
cher 

not 
satin 
aches 
la!” 


sub- 


ilda 
hy ; 























ject of ‘Gallia est omnis divisa——’ = 
“Nonsense,” said the Girl (which was 
quite true) “T’ve dropped Latin ” 

“But the colleges haven't, I 
moaned. “Why college ?”’ countered 
the Girl. 

Why indeed? I tried Cicero “pro 
Archia Poeta”. The Girl was cold. 
Then I pleaded for my own spiritual 
integrity: “I have told 12 millions to 
go to college—what will they say if 
you don’t go?” ‘The Girl admitted 
that that was reasonable but she said 
she was considering marriage and really 
thought she knew about all that schools 
could teach effectively. I, too, was 
reasonable and most considerate, de- 
spite the fact that I was internally 
aghast. This baby—married—My 
God!—but, of course, I said aloud: 
Honorable state and all that; and “Go 
ahead, if you like—but how about a 
year in college as a sort of, well, in- 
troduction to life in general and for 
furnishing topics of conversation in the 
long years to come? How about it?” 
“Fair enough,” said the Girl and she 
went to college. 








OYS! queer animals. Hereditary 
enemies of Fathers-with-daughters 
and Mothers! Mother had chaperoned 
the Girl relentlessly through High 








School. Most Mothers didn’t bother. 
It was a bore and one felt like the un- 
invited guest or the veritable Death’s 
Head. The Girl didn’t mind much, 
only—‘‘Well, really Mother you don’t 
need to go or even to sit up.” But 
Mother stuck to her job. I’ve always 
had the feeling that the real trick was 
turned in those years, by a very soft- 
voiced and persistent Mother who was 
always hanging about unobtrusively. 
The boys liked her, the girls were good- 
naturedly condescending; the Girl 
laughed. It was so funny. Father, 
of course, was busy with larger matters 
and weightier problems, including him- 
self. 

Clothes. In the midst of high school 
came sudden clothes. The problem of 
raiment. The astonishing transforma- 
tion of the hoyden and hiker and basket 
ball expert into an amazing butterfly. 
We parents had expressed lofty distain 
for the new colored beauty parlors- 
straightening and bleaching, the very 
idea! But they didn’t straighten, they 
cleaned and curled; they didn’t whiten, 
they delicately darkened. They did for 
colored girls’ style of beauty what two 
sophisticated centuries had been doing 
for blonde frights. When the finished 
product stood forth all silked and em- 
broidered, briefly skirted and_ long- 


Tue Groom anp His USHERS: 





limbed with impudent lip-stick and 
jaunty toque—well, Thrift hung its 
diminished head and Philosophy stam- 
mered. What shall we do about our 
daughter’s extravagant dress? ‘The 
beauty of colored girls has increased 
100% in a decade because they give to 
it time and trouble. Can we stop it? 
Should we? Where shall we draw the 
line, with good silk stockings at $1.95 
per pair? 

“Girl! You take so long to dress! 
I can dress in fifteen minutes.” 

“Yes—Mamma and you look it!” 
came the frankly unfilial answer. 


OLLEGE. College was absence 
and premonition. Empty absence 
and occasional letters and abrupt 
pauses. One wondered uneasily what 
they were doing with the Girl; who 
rather than what was educating her. 
Four years of vague uneasiness with 
flashes of hectic and puzzling vaca- 
tions. Once with startling abruptness 
there arose the Shadow of Death— 
acute appendicitis; the hospital—the 
cold, sharp knife; the horror of wait- 
ing and the namelessly sweet thrill of 
recovery. Of course, all the spoiling 
began again and it literally rained silk 
and gold. 
(Will you please turn to page 207) 


The Messrs. Harold Jackman, Edward Perry, Langston Hughes, Embrey Bonner, Arna Bontemps, William Brown, Robert Weaver, 
William Alphaeus Hunton, 2nd, Aibert Walker, Alex. F. Miller and William Howell; together with Melville Charlton, Organist, 
the Reverend George Frazier Miller, and the parents of the bride and groom. 


June, 1928 


193 

































ie 


| THE N.A.A.C.P. BATTLE FRONT . 











URING the primary elections, 
which will be past history by the 
time this is printed, Negroes in two 
southern states were making determined 
efforts to be permitted to vote in Demo- 
cratic primary elections. One group 
registered their voters in Richmond, 
Virginia. Another group in Pensacola, 
Florida, under the leadership of the 
local branch of the N. A. A. C. P. reg- 
istered no less than 1,500 Negroes. 
The reason for the desire to vote in 
the Democratic primaries is a perfectly 
clear and simple one. In the South 
the real and the only election is the 
primary. The general election is a 
mere formality ratifying the results of 
the primary election. Nathan A. Jones, 
President of the Pensacola Branch of 
the N. A. A. C. P. stated the reason 
for the large registration of Negroes 
there, determined to vote in the Demo- 
cratic primaries, when he said: “Our 
action was taken because we felt as 
taxpayers we were not getting a fair 
deal by the city authorities—no parks, 
nor lights, nor water, nor city work.” 
The efforts in these Southern states 
by small groups of Negroes, determined 
to carry their case on appeal before the 
courts, occasioned a disproportionate 
amount of excitement among white 
politicians. These gentlemen looked 
long and hard for pretexts to prevent 
the Negroes from voting. The Attor- 
ey General of the State of Florida 
tried to intimidate intending colored 
voters by announcing they would be 
prosecuted for “perjury”. 


UT the Negroes who desired to 

vote in the primary elections had a 
rock-bottom case. They based their 
action upon the decision of the Supreme 
Court of the United States in the so- 
called Texas White Primary Case 
(Nixon versus Herndon) won last 
year by attorneys for the N. A. A. 
C. P. This decision, it will be re- 
called, established the primaries as part 
of the election machinery, and declared 
Negroes could not be barred because 
of their race or color. 

The importance of this decision is 
just beginning to be understood. If 
the Negroes generally throughout the 
South insist upon exercising their right 
to vote in the Democratic primaries 
and carry their cases to court when 
white politicians attempt to refuse 
them, it will mean nothing less than the 
end of the old solid South. For Ne- 


groes will begin to have their share in 
194 





Dr. H. Claude Hudson (Page 199.) 
President ”, the Los Angeles Branch of 


the N. A. A. C. P., which will entertain 
the 19th Annual Conference at Los Angeles. 


determining candidates of the Demo- 
cratic party and that party will cease 
to be, as it is now, the organ of a small 
white minority. Perhaps then the Re- 
publican party or other parties will 
have some opportunity to grow in a 
section where the Republican Party is 
now mainly a skeleton affair. 


HE two attempts on the part of 

Negroes to vote in the primaries 
this year, in Richmond and Pensacola, 
are merely a beginning. They indicate 
clearly the importance of such victories 
as are won before the highest court in 
the land by the N. A. A.C. P. Those 
victories are permanent and _ basic. 
Whether they are made use of imme- 
diately or not, 
waiting for some one to take them up 
and wield them. They can be used 
not only to extend rights already won. 
They are a defense against the constant 
tendency to whittle away such rights 
as have been conceded. If the Texas 
White Primary law had been allowed 
by the N. A. A. C. P. to go unchal- 
lenged, it would not have been long 
before, as a matter of law as well as 


they are instruments’ 


‘of custom, the Negro would entirely 


have been eliminated from any share 
in political activity in the South. As 
it is, his right is now established to 
take part in the nomination and elec- 
tion of Democratic candidates. If he 
exercises this right, as he is already be- 
ginning to do, he will not only develop 
his power to say who shall govern him 
locally, but will eventually completely 


change the entire political situation in 
the Far South. 


The same considerations hold good 
of the victory won in the Louisville 
Segregation case by the National Presj- 
dent of the N. A. A. C. P., Mr. 
Moorfield Storey, in 1917. Does any- 
one doubt that if the Louisville law 
had gone unchallenged residential seg- 
regation would have been enacted in 
all large cities of the country? Since 
that time the Louisville case has served 
as a basis for other cases fought 
through the courts, the latest such vic- 
tory having been won in the New 
Orleans segregation case before the 
United States Supreme Court last 
year. mm. J. &. 


LIFE MEMBERS 
OST of the work and expendi- 


ture of the National Association 
for the Advancement of Colored Peo- 
ple goes to affirm the rights of the 
humblest and most disadvantaged Ne- 
groes in America. They are the peo- 
ple who could not help themselves but 
for the N. A. A. C. P. In them and 
in their status the civil rights of the 
Negro are affirmed or denied, even the 
rights of the most prosperous and seem- 
ingly the most safeguarded. For so 
long as there is one humble man or 
woman of color who can be oppressed 
and insulted and robbed with impunity 
because of his or her color, no Negro 
in the country is safe. 


It is with some such facts in mind 
that the Board of Directors of the 
Association have established a new 
form of membership. These are Life 
Memberships, calling for a $500 sub- 
scription to the Association’s work, 
payable either in full or in annual in- 
stalments of $100 a year for five years. 
The Life Memberships are established 
specifically in order that men and wo- 
men who have achieved a competence 
and comfort, or who have become 
wealthy, may contribute in behalf of 


(Will you please turn to page 209) 


THE Crisis 











agin aS 


eC Ta 


Le eee Teh 


















pF SRG GR aime IIE: 








Calendar Chat 


“Thinking of fields, are you?” 
ICKENS’S turnkey asked this of 
Little Dorrit in the book that 

bears her name. It’s a seasonable ques- 
tion for June. Though you were to 
arrive in the country for the first time 
at night in summer you would know 
nevertheless that the fields and woods 
held wonders for you. 

There would be a golden glimpse of 
fireflies. "There would be the sound 
of frogs sturdily calling, of gray squir- 
rels barking sharp warning at the ap- 
proach of hawks, of whippoorwills 
gloomily whistling from glens. You 
might find a whippoorwill the next 
afternoon crouched on an_ outspread 
orchard bough or meet the friendly 
gray squirrel shooting about like a 
little creature on wheels till its tail 
looked like a streak of dust. Indeed 


to me they often seem to be pouring 


BeViw of Tue Nanon of St.Thomas VL 


down from the branches, they move so 
swiftly, so smoothly. 


OU might find birds all back 

from summer lands, some from 
such winter resorts as Louise Lord has 
drawn in this picture of St. Thomas 
harbor, the Virgin Island spot that she 
and her parents left when coming to 
New York last winter. Little Louise 
is attending school in New York, and 
is in the ninth grade. 

But I had not intended talking of 
schools but “thinking of fields” with 
wild roses and brown-eyed Susans en- 
tering them this month and wheat and 
oats waving and creeks calling one to 
wade and feel the water at first so cold 
and then so delightful to bare feet that 
tread the warm pebbles. 


Children Know 


: MERE are some people come to call 
Who don’t like children much at all. 


June, 1928 


The Little Page 


By EFFIE LEE NEWSOME 


And then some others. ring the bell 
Who seem to like us very well. 
They like our dogs and like our cats, 
And give them little friendly pats, 
And ask their names and all, 

Right down there in the hall. 

We watch them from upstairs, 

Then slip down easily, 

When they are friends of ours 

That we are glad to see, 

Especially when they know our names 
And have a lot to talk about, 

Our running and our different games— 
Some others just leave children out— 
And all about your birthdays, 

And who’s the oldest now. 

They’re not real favorites with the rest, 
But they suit us somehow. 


“Listen to the Water Mill All the 
Livelong Day” 
NEVER knew what became of the 


paper mill that was a village nuis- 
ance in my childhood. It and the stake 
and rider and worm fences and cov- 


ered bridges passed vaguely from 
among life’s necessities. In reading an 
article on bridges the other day I was 
reminded of a creek and a covered 
bridge and a water mill. 


The article referred to interesting 
mottoes that were often cut or 
scratched on the walls of covered 
bridges. There were many of these 
throughout Greene County, Ohio, when 
we moved there many years ago. On 
warm days we would allow our horses 
to pause under these shelters and rest 
or drive them there from a shower. 
There was, however, something dreary 
about the old weather beaten bridges, 
especially at dusk when the horses’ 
hoofs pounding the loose flooring would 
stir gloomy echoes. 

I can’t forget how glad I was when 
the covered bridge at the foot of our 
pike was replaced by a neat iron and 
cement span that seemed to halve the 
distance from one willow draped bank 


to another. And now one could look 
out upon the silver and green waters 
of the creek in crossing and smell the 
cool high waters in spring when musk- 
rats were scrambling around for a 
landing and cardinals flitting about the 
banks and haughty kingfishers enjoy- 
ing their minnows. 


HE water was not always fragrant 
and interesting, however, not’ in 
the days of the paper mill. Fish would 
perish in the stream of chocolate brown 
water with the white froth stirring 
dully on top, and people could be heard 
exclaiming, “That horrid paper mill!” 
When wistaria blooms were trying 
with all their might to perfume the 
valleys and hillsides on early summer 
nights a stealthy sickening smell would 
rise from the creek, and people would 
murmur again, “That horrid paper 
mill!” 


Yet it was such a picturesque sight, 


(eG te FM Re 


It had mole gray unpainted 


the mill. 
weatherboarding just the color of the 
stone foundation and little square win- 


dows stuck here and there. It sat so 
casually upon the hillside with banks 
of trees that changed colors all year 
furnishing a rich background. The 
miller himself was a calm faced little 
man with silver hair. The paper manu- 
factured on the hillside, if I remember, 
was the brown wrapping paper that 
butchers used, the kind that Jack ap- 
plied to his forehead with vinegar after 


he and Jill had tumbled down the hill. 


Miss Grenda’s Shop 


U turn one corner then go round, 
And there’s Miss Grenda’s shop. 
It has tin baking slides inside 
With cookies up on top, 
With cookies and molasses cakes 
Miss Grenda stands all day and bakes 
And stacks them on the shelf, 


(Will you please turn to page 210) 


195 


ccapeengpnammparnea mapas 














Desire 
By MARJORIE MARSHALL 


WOULD be one with the morning 
To hold in my throat 

Soft ecstacies 

Of bird notes; 

And catch in my hair 

Faint traceries of light 

From dawn clouds. 


I would be one with the evening 
To clasp in my hands 

Strange brilliancy 

Of star dust; 

And know in my soul 

The loneliness of moons 

And darkness, F 


The International Spirit 
By CLAUDE McKAY 


S flower dust is driven down the 
wind 
To touch and quicken the green life of 
earth, 
As birds spread wings and leave cold 
lands ‘behind, 
For regions of sweet warmth and sing- 
ing mirth: 
So shall thy thought be carried surely 
forth 
To the remotest dwellings of mankind, 
Reaching its inmost self to give new 
birth, 
New strength, new purpose to man’s 
boundless mind. 


The birds of time shall wing thee down 
the ways 

Of man’s abode. Thy progress will be 
keen 

Against the heavy mist of stormy days, 

As ever progress through the years has 
been. 

Even as strong-winged messengers are 
seen, 

In these amazing times with fine amaze, 

Threading the tides of space that roll 
between 

The earth and heavens that ever hold 
man’s gaze. 


The nations will be stricken at thy word, 

And grand old prejudices crumble down, 

‘That ancient pride in warring breasts 
has stirred. 

The noblest men shall work for any re- 
nown. 

‘Thy truest heralds do not fear the frown 

Of legioned bigots leagued by fear and 
spurred 

‘To crush thy truth, but more the shout- 
ing clown, 

The standard-flocking of the sheeplike 
herd. 


196 


THE POETS CORNER 





Self Portrait of J. W. Hardrick 
Harmon Priseman in Fine Arts 


Harlem 
By FRANK HORNE 
The Black Minstrel Sings :— 


OU Ain’t been there, brother? 
Don’t tell me so! 
“Tell ’im ‘bout it...tell ‘im 
eee 
Han’ me ma sax 
An’ lemme go 
*Taint nothin’ to ‘im 
Lemme tell ’im so— 
Han’ me ma sax 
An’ lemme go... 
Harlem...Harlem 
Black, black Harlem 
Boody...see hootchiepep 
Hootchiepep...See boody— 
...1'll sing ’im ’bout it— 


‘bout 


Harlem. ..Harlem 

Black, black Harlem 

Niggers, Jigs an’ shiney spades 
Highbrowns, yallers, fagingy-fagades 
“ ..Oh say it, brother 
Sept...” 

Pullman porters, shipping 
monkey chasers 
Actors, lawyers, Black Jews an’ fairies 

Ofays, pimps, low-downs an’ dicties 

Cabarets, gin an’ number tickets 

All mixed in 

With gangs o’churches— 

Sugar-foot misters an’ sun-dodgin’ sis- 
ters 

Don’t get up 

Till other folks long in bed... 

..-Hey!...Hey! 

“Say it, brother 

Say it...” 

My gal’s 

A Sealskin brown 

Hot lips 


clerks an’ 


And sweet, O God! 
Uh... huh, 

But ma gal’s 

A white gal 

Das’ all... 


Harlem...Harlem 
Black, black Harlem 
Souls of Black Folk 
Ask Du Bois 

Little grey restless feet 
Ask Claude McKay 
City of Refuge 

Ask Rudolph Fisher 
Don’t damn your body’s itch 
Ask Countee Cullen 
Does the jazz band sob? 
Ask Langston Hughes 
Nigger Heaven 

Ask Carl Van Vechten 
Hey!...Hey! 

Sing ’im "bout it 

“ ..Say it, brother 

Bay at... 


Hope 
By 
GEORGIA DOUGLAS JOHNSON 
OMETHING for each of us 


Surely somewhere, 
Something the soul needs infinitely there. 
So press through the dark 
Through the gloom, through the rain 
Life holds a balm 


For each ravishing pain. 


Something for each of us! 

Do not despair— 

There’s a heart to your answering 
Fully—somewhere. 

Press on through the dark 

With a smile on your face— 

The something you long for 
Awaits your embrace. 








Nonette 
By 
You wound my soul with a thousand 
spears, 
You bathe my wounds in a flood of 
tears, 
Nonette. 


You give me a rose whose breath is 
sweet, 

Whose petals are poison and death to 
eat, 

Nonette. 


And when I am dead you do not cry, 
But your heart breaks, too, and you, 
too, die. 


Tue Crisis 


= a eo ae eT 








eent ct Ga? Get oe, le CO 8 ee Oe oe LH ees 0 Sm fot A 


a thm ie Bae on 6lCUee eee ee oe luce ee Um ae 






IN 


and 


of 


1 is 


1 to 


you, 


FRE at 


‘ 
' 












June, 1928 


| ALONG THE COLOR LINE 


EDUCATION 
@ There are, at present, 189 colored 
Catholic schools with an attendance of 
28,409 pupils. They are all “Jim 
Crow” schools, even when situated in 
Northern cities. There are three 
Negro Catholic Sisterhoods, with head- 
quarters in Baltimore, New Orleans 
and New York, with about 350 mem- 
bers. There are about 155 Catholic 
high schools and at New Orleans there 
is one Negro Catholic college. There 
are at present four Negro Catholic 
priests. 
@ The North Carolina Conference on 
Religious Education in Negro Schools 
has been held. Dean Turner of Shaw 
University is President and L. R. 
McKinney of Brick Junior College, 
Secretary. 
@ One of the reasons that Negroes 
can not be expected to contribute much 
toward the support of Negro colleges is 
because they are doing so much to sup- 
port their own public schools, which 
the States support only in part. In 
North Carolina, for instance, Negroes 
have raised during the first three 
months of the year, $32,511 to supple- 
ment the work of the public schools. 
@ W. A. Robinson, Superintendent of 
Colored High Schools reports that 
North Carolina has 56 state accredited 
four year Negro high schools. From 
these, there were graduated in 1927, 





The Colored Association of Deans and 








H. J. Capehart, Assistant District Attorney 

for the Federal District of Southern West 

Virginia. Former member of the West 
Virginia Legislature 


1575 students. Eight hundred and 
twenty-seven or 52.5 per cent of these, 
continued their studies. In the case 
of one school, the Harnett County 
Training School, 100 per cent con- 
tinued their study; and of the Allen 





Registrars 





| 
4 


Home, 83.2 per cent. Six hundred 
and sixty-four went to North Caro- 
lina colleges and 163 went to schools 
outside the state, including 25 who 
went to white colleges. Of the re- 
maining graduates, 507 were teaching, 
82 were at work, 6 dead and 213 un- 
accounted for. 

@ The officers of the Colored Asso- 
ciation of Deans and Registrars are 
Ambrose Caliver, Fisk University, 
President; Howard -D. Gregg, 
Orangeburg A. & M. College, Secre- 
tary; and James B. Brawley, Clark 
University, Treasurer. 

@ In the Congressional Record ap- 
peared recently an extraordinarily in- 
teresting table compiled by Royal H. 
Weller of New York, member of the 
House of Representatives, and used 
by him in advocating permanent na- 
tional aid for the support of Howard 
University: 


STATISTICS OF 17 STATES WITH SEP- 
ARATE SCHOOLS FOR WHITES AND 
NEGROES 


Whites Negroes 


Population .. 27,030,398 8,980,506 
ee ere 66.8 33.2 
College Students Enrolled, 

Four Year Colleges....... 128,958 , 3,071 


$5,305,452 $282,785 
. .$31,651,836 $1,850,809 


Federal Funds Received 
State Funds Received 


If Negro students were fairly treated, 
instead of there being 3,000 in college, 
there would be 37,844, and instead of 
receiving less than $300,000 from 












a 

i 
¥ 
s 

, 
i 








Mrs. Mabel Williams. Producer of the 


‘Kansas City Follies” (Page 199) 
Federal funds and less than $2,000,- 
000 from State funds, they would re- 
ceive $2,114,494 from the United 
States and $10,876,426 from the State. 
The table also shows that Howard 
University has over 1000 Negroes of 
college grade and of these, 709 come 
from the 17 states referred to. 

@ The Registrar of Lincoln Univer- 
sity, Pa., has been inquiring into the 
enrollment of Negro students in high 


schools of five Northern States, with 
the following results: 
States Conn 
Juestionnaires issued 80 
estionnaires returned . “s on nee 42 
Reported no Negro students és Voeerewuen 18 
Boys in high school....... is Gomatean eokae nee 
Boys in senior class....... sbantataeveies 2 
Boys graduated in past 4 years.............-- 11 
Girls in high school..... ik aieite ae elias OL 
Girls in senior class..........--...-- «+++ — 5 
Number boys in college in past 4 years. - 3 
Number of colleges attended.. ; ‘i 3 


Some of the large city high schools 
were unable to furnish data as their 
records did not show race, and so the 
total enrollment may be 20 per cent 
higher than this figure. Of 101 fresh- 
men admitted at Lincoln University 
in September, 1927, “50 were grad- 
uates of high schools located in the 
North. Of this number 18 came from 
New Jersey, 15 from Pennsylvania, 6 
from New York, 3 from Massachu- 
setts and 2 from Connecticut. Dur- 
ing the four years previous to 1927 a 
total of 31 freshmen were admitted 
from Pennsylvania high schools, 19 
from New Jersey, 9 from Massachu- 
setts, 6 from New York and 4 from 
Connecticut”. 


MEETINGS 

@ The Kentucky Negro Educational 
Association met in April with a large 
attendance. 

@ The National Negro Insurance 
Association and a group of Negro 
bankers have met in Columbus, Ohio. 
The program included: addresses of 
City, State and National Officials, 


198 


prominent among which were ad- 
dresses of Hon. E. C. Turner, At- 
torney General; Hon. W. C. Safford, 
Insurance Commissioner of the State 
of Ohio; Hon. J. A. Jackson of the 
Department of Commerce, Washing- 
ton, D. C.; Harry H. Pace, President 
of Northeastern Life, Newark, N. J.; 
Anthony Overton, President of Doug- 
las National Bank, Chicago, IIl.; C. C. 
Spaulding, President of North Caro- 
lina Mutual, Durham, N. C.; M. C. 
Bousfield, President of Liberty Life, 
Chicago, Ill.; John Holloman, Presi- 
dent of Pyramid Mutual of Chicago ; 
H. E. Hall, President of Mammoth 
Life, Louisville, Ky.; John H. Lowery, 
President of Anchor Life, Cleveland 
and others. 

SOCIAL PROGRESS 
@ The new Michigan Avenue build- 
ing of the Buffalo Y. M. C. A., de- 
signed especially for colored men, was 
opened April 15. William H. Jack- 
son is Executive Secretary. 
@ The Glenarm Branch of the Den- 
ver Y. M. C. A. for colored men took 
care of 11,215 Pullman employees 
during the past year.- It also accom- 
modates large numbers of colored 
travellers and visitors. 
@ Nominations for the Harmon 
Awards close August 15. There are 
fourteen awards for Negroes and one 
award in race relations carrying an 


Mass. W.2. N. J. Pa. Total 
248 729 150 692 1,899 
94 372 80 331 919 
254 26 194 535 

179 553 345 851 1,977 
21 52 26 154 
71 380 55 151 668 
9 830 467 715 2,082 

0 128 46 91 270 
13 29 21 55 121 
8 16 9 20 39 


honorarium of $1,000, which hereafter 
is to be conferred every two years. 


@ Negro Achievement Week has been 
celebrated in Germantown, Pa., under 
the auspices of the Inter-Racial Com- 
mittee of the Germantown Y. W. C. 
A. There was a fine exhibit of Negro 
art at the library, including paintings 
by Tanner, Laura Wheeler Waring, 
Edward Hill, Alan Freelon and many 
others. Among those who took part 
on the programs were: Harry Bur- 
leigh, Clarence Cameron White, Pro- 
fessor W. L. Hansberry and Dr. Alain 
Locke of Howard University, Leslie 
Pinckney Hill of Cheyney, and Dr. 
W. E. B. Du Bois, James Weldon 
Johnson and Miss Jessie Fauset of 
New York. 

@ The 29th annual report of the 
National Benefit Insurance Company 
shows total assets of $5,839,198. The 
liabilities include the legal reserve on 
policies of $4,526,132 and a surplus 
of $423,419. 

@ A seminar on Church and Racial 
Relations was held in Chicago in April 


under the auspices of the Congrega. 
tion Education Society and the Na 
tional Council of Congregational 
Churches. The sessions were held a 
Hull House and among those who took 
part were: Jane Addams, President 
Jones of Fisk University, Professor 
Melville Herskovits of Northwestern 
University, Dr. L. K. Williams, §, 
Franklin Frazier, Dr. George f, 
Haynes, the Reverend H. EF. Kings- 
ley and many others. 

@ Busts of Touissant L’Ouverture 
and Henry O. Tanner have been up. 
veiled at the Lake County Children’s 
Home at Gary, Indiana. 

@ Ever since the National Student 
Conference in Milwaukee in 1926, 
efforts of understanding between the 
races have been made. The colored 
population has increased 145 per cent 
since 1920. Recently trips of “under- 
standing” have been made through the 
Negro district by groups of students, 
professional and business men. Branches 
of the N A. A. C. P. and the Urban 
League have been established and 
James Weldon Johnson has spoken at 
Milwaukee. 

@ The Christian Herald has pub- 
lished its annual religious census. Ac- 
cording to its figures, the colored Na- 
tional Baptists have 3,253,369 com- 
municants, a decrease of 57,600 from 
last year; the African Methodists re- 
port 781,692, an increase of 60,658; 
the African Zion Church reports 500,- 
000, an increase of 10,000; and the 
Colored M. FE. Church, 333,002, an 
increase of 1981. 

@ The colored citizens of Portsmouth, 
Va., have formed a “Council of Race 
Advisors”, with Dr. W. H. Lowry 
as Chief Advisor. 


MUSIC AND ART 


@ Josephine Baker, the Negro Ameri-. 


can dancer, is having triumphal .pro- 


gress through Austria and Czecho- 


The Dancing Dolls in the “Kansas City 


Follies” (Page 199) 


Tue Crisis 










ce 
a 


Rs 


































rega- 
Na- 
ional 
ld at 
took 
ident 
€ss0r 
stern 
i x 
B 


Lings- 


rture 
n un- 
lren’s 


udent 
1926, 
n the 
lored 
r cent 
inder- 
th the 
dents, 
anches 
Urban 

and 
ken at 


pub- 
. Ac 
d Na- 

com- 
) from 
sts re- 
0,658; 
s 500- 
nd the 
02, an 


mouth, 
f Race 


Lowry 


Ameri- 
al .pro- 


*zecho- 





sas City 


Slovakia. American newspapers, like 
the New York Times, are now omit- 
ting all reference to her race, and 
speak of her as “an American dancer”. 


@ Ruth Bayton, a colored dancer, who 
formerly played with Florence Mills, 
js at present star of the ' ‘Folies- 
Wagram”, the newest music hall of 
Paris. 

q The Women’s Auxiliary of the 
Kansas City, Mo., branch of the N. 
A. A. C. P., presented the “Junior 
Follies” at the Empress Theater in 
February. The Auxiliary of 100 wo- 
men labored hard and an audience of 
1600 completely filled the theater. Mrs. 
Sally C. Love is President and Miss 
Alma M. Taylor, Secretary. 

@ Winold Reiss is exhibiting in New 
York City a series of American In- 
dian pictures. They demonstrate his 
usual strength. 


@ The Concert by the Hampton In- 
stitute Choir, under the direction of 
R. Nathaniel Dett, at Carnegie Hall, 
New York, has received much strik- 
ing commendation. The New York 
Times declared the singing “was dis- 
tinguished -by exceptional delicacy of 
feeling and shading”; the Morning 
Telegraph said there has been “no 
finer example of choir singing in this 
season’s whole record”; the Herald 
Tribune stressed “‘the notable unity in 
spirit and execution”; and the Eve- 
ning Post said, “As a whole the choir 
is splendid . . . There isn’t a white 
choir on earth that could lift the 
‘Don’t Be Weary Traveler’, into rap- 
ture as did these dark singers from 
Virginia”. 

@ The Little Theatre Movement 


among American Negroes is still per- 
sisting. In spite of the fact that the 
Krigwa Players of New York, under 
Charles Burroughs, have not been 
meeting regularly this year, the pro- 
moters of the Belasco Tournament, 
mindful of their excellent work last 
year, insisted upon their entering the 
Little Theatre Tournament. They 
competed in May with nineteen other 
theaters and presented “Aftermath”, 
a play by Miss Mary Burrill of the 
Dunbar High School of Washington, 
D. C. 


@ The Dixwell Players of New 
Haven in their second season pre- 
sented “The Broken Banjo” by Willis 
Richardson, Paul Green’s “The No 
‘Count Boy” and Lord Dunsany’s 
“The Golden Doom”. They entered 
the first play in the New Haven Dra- 
matic Tournament, competing for the 
Edith Fisher Schwab Cup at Yale 
University, and were given first place. 
@ The Allied Arts Players of Bos- 
ton, Mass., under the leadership of 
Maude Cuney Hare have presented 
three plays, “Forbidden Ground”, by 
Armand Boutté, Lord Dunsany’s “The 
Tents of the Arabs”, and later they 
produced Maude Cuney Hare’s “Antar 
of Araby” with incidental music, at 
the Fine Arts Theater. 

@ Lewis Alexander has edited a 
“Negro Poet’s Number” of the Caro- 
lina Magazine with articles by Alain 
Locke and Charles S. Johnson, and 
poems by Countée Cullen, Langston 
Hughes, Arna Bontemps, Gwendolyn 
Bennett, Georgia Douglass Johnson 
and others. 


@ The Gamma Omega Chapter of 
the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority of 








Native Hospital Attendants. 


South Africa 


St. Louis, Mo., has presented the dan- 
cer, Miss Mabel Jones, who is a Ves- 
toft-Serova Interpretive dancer and do- 
ing excellent work. She has opened 
a school of classical dancing in Wash- 
ington, D, C. 


PERSONAL 
@ At Ivanhoe, Va., Mrs. Mary H. 


Scott, a colored woman, operates a 
telephone switch board for the Mutual 
Telephone Company. She has been 
employed since December 13, 1912, 
and the lines of her board extend lo- 
cally over southwestern Virginia and 
connect with long distance lines all 
over the United States. The apparatus 
is installed in her home. 


@ Dr. H. Claude Hudson was born 
in Louisiana and educated at Wiley 
University. He began practicing den- 
tistry in Shreveport, Louisiana, a 
lynching town, where he dared to es- 
tablish a branch of the N. A. A. C. P. 
A mob, led by the Sheriff and Chief 
of Police, invaded the annual meeting 
of the colored Doctors of the State of 
Louisiana, looking for Mr. Pickens 
who was to address the meeting. After 
this Dr. Hudson removed to California 
and joined the N. A. A. C. P. Branch 
at Los Angeles. He became Presi- 
dent and the great activity of the 
Branch during the last three or four 
years has been due in no little degree 
to his energetic leadership. 


@ George W. Blackwell has been 
nominated for representative from the 
first Illinois district. If he is elected, 
he will succeed the late S. B. Turner. 
@ Robert S. Allen, a colored busi- 
ness man of Columbus, Ohio, died 
recently at the age of 63 years. He 







2 Ba 








was a veteran of the Spanish Ameri- 
can War and a brother of Mrs. Mattie 
A. McAdoo of Washington, D. C. 

@ The colored people of Portland, 
Me., are represented on Judge M. L. 


Pinansky’s Juvenile Committee by 
Mrs. Bessie Edwards, a_ colored 
woman. 


EAST AFRICA 
@ The Governor General of French 
Equatorial Africa reports that the 
revenue has at last exceeded the ex- 
penditure. Expenditures are now 20,- 
000,000 francs while the revenue is 
25,300,000. Debts have been paid 
and there is a reserve fund of 21,602,- 
489 francs. At the same time 6,010,- 
574 francs have been paid into the 
French treasury. The budgets of the 
separate colonies in the group have 
nearly quadrupled since 1924 and 
amounted to 50,784,000 francs. The 
General Budget included 1,000,000 
francs for tools and agricultural im- 
plements, 12,000,000 for public works 
and 10,000,000 for medical services in- 
cluding 4,000,000 for a special cam- 
paign against sleeping sickness. Trade 
amounted to 157,074,468 francs in the 
first half of 1927. 
@ Tanganyika, formerly German 
East Africa, and now a mandate under 
the British, imported $18,500,000 
worth of goods in 1927 an increase of 
$2,500,000 in 1926. The exports 
amounted to $18,000,000 and con- 
sisted chiefly of hemp, cotton and 
coffee. 

WEST AFRICA 
@ This month the King and Queen 
of Belgium are visiting the Congo. 
July 1, they will inaugurate a monu- 
ment to Leopold II; they will then 
visit the diamond fields and various 
mines; July 19 they will visit Lake 
Tanganyika and return by way of the 
Congo River. They will leave for 
Antwerp, August 12, arriving August 
31. 


200 


@ An exhibition of the art of Da- 
homey was recently held at the Uni- 
versity of Louvain by Father Aupisis. 
The collection consists of the work of 
a local paper, the “Reconnaissance 
Africaine’ and of the people of Porto 
Nova. 

@ The greatest recent event in West 
Africa was the opening of the great, 
new harbor at Takoradi in the Gold 
Coast Colony, April 3. There were 
present: J. H. Thomas, British Ex- 
Secretary of State for the Colonies; 
the Governor of Sierra Leone; and 
the Governor of the Gold Coast, to- 
gether with the Anglican Bishop and a 
large assembly of African Chiefs. The 
harbor cost $20,000,000 and accom- 
modates nine ocean going vessels to- 
gether with twenty sets of moorings 
for smaller crafts. The area within 
the two breakwaters is about 220 
acres. The harbor has been building 
since 1923 and 2,000,000 cubic yards 
of granite have been consumed in its 
construction. Four thousand Negroes 
have been employed daily together 
with 164 Europeans. 

@ The British Colony of Nigeria is 
seven times the size of England and is 
said to contain countries more different 
in history than England and*Turkey. 
In 1926, Nigeria imported $65,500,- 
000 worth of goods. Increasing num- 
bers of Nigerians are working as 
skilled and unskilled laborers under 
European and African employers. Un- 
skilled labor costs from 18 to 30 cents 
a day. African motor trucks, owned, 
driven and repaired by Africans, are 
sucessfully competing with the gov- 
ernment railroad in the transportation 
of freight. 

@ Harold Mitchell, Chairman of the 
Freetown, Sierra Leone Temporary 
Municipal Board, has been appointed 
President of the new City Council 
under the ordinance of 1927. 

@ The former Governor of he Gold 
Coast reports that only one tenth of 


The Annual Clinic of Negro Physicians 


the children of school age in the Gold 
Coast are at present receiving educa- 
tion. 


@ British West Africa has 32,000- 
000 native inhabitants. They consume 
mostly cheap European merchandise 
but their consumption is increasing and 
they are beginning to demand better 
classes of goods. The area of British 
West Africa is five times that of the 
Isles. It is thought that the Gold 
Coast alone, whose present import 
trade is worth $50,000,000, will double 
that trade in the next ten years. Two 
thirds of the imports come from Great 
Britain, which shows what the black 
colony means to England. The im- 
ports at present are cotton goods, to- 
bacco, cigarettes, soap, salt, hardware, 
kerosene and beer. 


SOUTH AFRICA 

@ The I. C. U., the Negro Labor 
Union of South Africa, has a Euro- 
pean advisor, John Wainer. He told 
native workers of black men in Amer- 
ica and of the fact that they vote. It 
is his thought that they should or- 
ganize and obtain the vote. Kadalie, 
in a speech at Bloemfontein, declared 
that the I. C. U. would, in time, be 
bigger than any white party in South 
Africa. 

@ C. T. Loram of the Native Affairs 
Commission of South Africa, has given 
further detail concerning the grant of 
$500,000 by the Carnegie Foundation 
of New York. The white university 
of Witwatersland will spend $10,000 
a year for scientific research and $3,750 
a year for allowances to students. 
Twenty thousand dollars a year will 
be used to study the “poor whites’; 
$22,500 a year will be used to study 
the South African Library situation. 
Native education and the establish- 
ment of special types of “Jeanes’ 
schools will be studied. Three art 
collections worth $5,000 each will be 
established at three white universities 


Tue Crisis 





bui 


dor 
anc 


dri 


res 
for 
cha 
pai 
sen 
anc 


ref 
Un 
lish 


sist 


tor 
pro 
cul 
Sor 
art 


the 
bri 
for 


Sot 
ag 
Tul 


Rh 






clans 


Gold 


luca- 


000,- 
sume 
ndise 
x and 
etter 
ritish 
f the 
Gold 
nport 
ouble 
Two 
Great 
black 
e im- 
is, to- 
ware, 


Labor 
Euro- 
e told 
Amer- 
e. It 
id or- 
adalie, 
clared 
ne, be 


South 


A ffairs 
; given 
ant of 
dation 
versity 
10,000 
$3,750 
dents. 
ir will 
hites”’; 
. study 
uation. 
tablish- 
Jeanes” 
ree art 
will be 
rersities 


Crisis 












At Tuskegee Institute 


and loaned at various times. ‘Travel- 
ling grants will allow persons engaged 
in educational and social work to visit 
Canada and the United States. 

@ Sir Abe Bailey, a prominent and 
rich South African politician, has an 
interview in the Cape Argus. He says 
that South Africa is up against the 
grim specter of 7,000,000 natives in- 
creasing rapidly and facing a station- 
ary white population which is merely 
a handful. South Africa has been 
built up on the basis of black labor in 
the past and must be in the future. 
The native tribal system has broken 
down. The natives are industrialized 
and with education, the days of dumb, 
driven labor are over. “There must be 
a black vote and some scheme of rep- 
resentation, but no black parliament, 
for a black parliament would soon 
challenge the authority of the white 
parliament. He proposes native repre- 
sentation by natives in both the Senate 
and Assembly. 

@ Southern Rhodesia five years ago 
refused to enter the South African 
Union. She is now seeking to estab- 
lish a Central African Dominion con- 
sisting of Southern and Northern 
Rhodesia, the Bechuanaland Protec- 
torate and Nyasaland. As usual, the 
problem of the natives is a serious diff- 
culty. There are white artisans in 
Southern Rhodesia and only Negro 
artisans in Nyasaland. 

€ The Premier, General Hertzog, of 
the Union of South Africa, will soon 
bring his revolutionary native bills be- 
tore Parliament for discussion. 

@ The British Association for the 
Advancement of Science will meet in 
South Africa next year and will make 
a special effort to study the magnificent 
tuns of Zimbabwe in Southern 
Rhodesia. No attempt has been made 
to study them since the report of 
Randall McIvor in 1905. This re- 


Port was not popular because Mclvor 


June, 1928 





declared that the work was that of 
indigenous peoples. 

EUROPE , 
@ The Fabian Society of London re- 


cently staged a public debate between 


Dr. Norman Leys and Major A. G. 
Church on East Africa. The question 


(Will you please turn to page 211) 





RAR Wi 02 on Fo 


ge a 





— 


TWO NOVELS 


Nella Larsen “Quicksand” (Knopf) 
Claude McKay “Home to Harlem” 
(Harper and Brothers) 


HAVE just read the last two novels 

of Negro America. The one | 
liked; the other I distinctly did not. 
I think that Mrs. Imes, writing under 
the pen name of Nella Larsen, has 
done a fine, thoughtful and courageous 
piece of work in her novel. It is, on 
the whole, the best piece of fiction that 
Negro America has produced since the 
heyday of Chesnutt, and stands easily 
with Jessie Fauset’s “There is Con- 
fusion”, in its subtle comprehension of 
the curious cross currents that swirl 
about the black American. 

Claude McKay’s “Home to Har- 
lem”, on the other hand, for the most 
part nauseates me, and after the dirtier 
parts of its filth I feel distinctly like 
taking a bath. This does not mean 
that the book is wholly bad. McKay 
is too great a poet to make any com- 
plete failure in writing. There are 
bits of ““Home to Harlem”, beautiful 
and fascinating: the continued changes 
upon the theme of the beauty of colored 
skins; the portrayal of the fascination 
of their new yearnings for each other 
which Negroes are developing. The 
chief character, Jake, has something 
appealing, and the glimpses of the 
Haitian, Ray, have all the materials of 
a great piece of fiction. 

But it looks as though, despite this, 
McKay has set out to cater for that 
prurient demand on the part of white 
folk for a portrayal in Negroes of 
that utter licentiousness which conven- 
tional civilization holds white folk 
back from enjoying—if enjoyment it 
can be called. That which a certain 
decadent section of the white American 
world, centered particularly in New 
York, longs for with fierce and unre- 
strained passions, it wants to see writ- 
ten out in black and white, and saddled 
on black Harlem. This demand, as 
voiced by a number of New York pub- 
lishers, McKay has certainly satisfied, 
and added much for good measure. He 
has used every art and emphasis to 
paint drunkenness, fighting, lascivious 
sexual promiscuity and utter absence 
of restraint in as bold and as bright 
colors as he can. 

If this had been done in the course 
of a well-conceived plot or with any 
artistic unity, it might have been un- 
derstood if not excused. But “Home 
to Harlem” is padded. Whole chap- 


202 





ters here and there are inserted with 
no connection to the main plot, ex- 
cept that they are on the same dirty 
subject. As a picture of Harlem life 
or of Negro life anywhere, it is, of 
course, nonsense. Untrue, not so much 
as on account of its facts, but on ac- 
count of its emphasis and glaring 
colors. I am sorry that the author of 
“Harlem Shadows” stooped to this. I 
sincerely hope that he will some day 
rise above it and give us in fiction the 
strong, well-knit as well as beautiful 
theme, that it seems to me he might 
do. 

Nella Larsen on the other hand has 
seized an interesting character and 
fitted her into a close yet delicately 
woven plot. There is no “happy end- 
ing” and yet the theme is not defeatist 
like the work of Peterkin and Green. 
Helga Crane sinks at last still master 
of her whimsical, unsatisfied soul. In 
the end she will be beaten down even 
to death but she never will utterly sur- 
render to hypocricy and convention. 
Helga is typical of the new, honest, 
young fighting Negro woman—the one 
on whom “race” sits negligibly and 
Life is always first and its wandering 
path is but darkened, not obliterated 
by the shadow of the Veil. White 
folk will not like this book. It is not 
near nasty enough for New York 
columnists. It is too sincere for the 
South and middle West. Therefore, 
buy it and make Mrs. Imes write many 
more novels. 


Social science in America has so 
long been the foot ball of “nigger’- 
hating propaganda that we Negroes 
fail to get excited when a new scien- 
tist comes into the field. We have had 
our fill of Bean, Smith, Brigham and 
McDougal, so that when a young stu- 
dent turns to the Negro problem, we 
assume he is going to come out exactly 
where he went in. When Melville 
Herskovits started anthropological 
measurements in Harlem, the only 
hope we had was that he was a pupil 
of Franz Boaz. But he proved to be 
more than this. Herskovits is a real 
scientist. That is: a man who is more 
interested in arriving at truth than 
proving a thesis of race superiority. 

His book, “The American Negro”, 
(Knopf) built up from a number of 
papers and studies is, in a real sense, 
epoch-making. First of ali, he proves 
by a series of careful measurements and 
compilations that the American Negro 








== 


THE BROWSING READER 


—s 


is a new definite group. All of that 
nonsense fostered by the United States 
Census as to mulattos is swept away. 
I myself told the Census authorities of 
1910 when I collaborated with them 
that their figures on mulattos made 4 
serious under-estimate and was laughed 
at for my pains. Now comes Hers. 
kovits and proves by a wide study that 
less than one-fourth of the Negroes 
of the United States are of unmixed 
Negro blood and that forty per cent of 
them have as much or more white 
blood as Negro. This in itself js 
neither advantage nor disadvantage; 
but it shows on the one hand the idiocy 
of talking about the Negro as an “un- 
assimilable” and distinct race in the 
United States, and of arguing about 
American Negroes fom the same 
premises as we argue about the Bantu. 

Indeed the interesting thing about 
Mr. Herskovits’ conclusions is that we 
have in the American Negro, by actual 
physical measurements, a group which 
resembles in many important respects, 
a pure race. That is: the intermixture 
has gone on for so long and the “racial” 
inbreeding and inter-thinking have be- 
come so strong, that a singular group 
stability has been attained. Moreover, 
one feels that this group stability has 
been even more largely a matter of so- 
cial and rational accomplishment than 
of mere physical descent. 

The implications of Herskovits’ 
studies are really tremendous, not sim- 
ply for the race problem in the United 
States, but also for the whole question 
of human contact, intermingling of 
blood and social heredity. It is a little 
book of 92 pages and costs a trifle. It 
ought to be in every Negro’s library. 

We may end this review with one 
interesting quotation. 

“The American Negroes are, after 
all, a homogeneous population. They 
are also a greatly mixed group. How 
may one reconcile these two state 
ments? It is not so difficult when one 
really considers the proposition from 
all angles. For is it not true that all 
human groups represent large amounts 
of mixture? This brings us back to the 
theory of race. Students have won- 
dered at the number of varieties of hw 
man types, and have been unable to ac 
count for them. They have also been 
at a loss to account for the degree to 
which all the so-called ‘races’ of man 
seem to shade from one type into ai- 
other; with never the sharp lines of 


(Will you please turn to page 211) 
Tue Crisis 














8 
F 











fa 



























































in the i 


> 
a 
oc 
Cc 
= 
- 


ale 


actual 
which 
aspects, 
nixture 
racial” 
ave be- 
' group 
reover, 
ity has 
r of so- 
nt than 





f 


skovits’ 
1ot sim- 
United 
Juestion 
ling of 
a little 
ifle, It 
library. 
vith one 


e, after 


). How 
0 state 
rhen one 
yn from 
that all 
amounts 
ck to the 
ve won- 
es of hu- 
yle to ac- 
ilso been 
legree to 
"of man 
into af- 
lines of 


ge 211) 
2: Crisis 


rea 


They ‘- 


Fist CUfpe 
——_——— 


KRIGWA 1928 


On Page 76 of the Marcu Crisis 
and on Page 133 of the Aprit Crisis 
we have already announced two sets 
of prizes for 1928. 

First, the Charles Waddell Chesnutt 
Honoraria. These are prizes of $25, 
$15 and $10 awarded each month for 
one year beginning with the APRIL 
number. We are pleased to announce 
of prizes for May, 1928: 

First Prize. Cover. “The Young 
Blood Hungers”, by Aaron Doug- 
SS. Foci chet ee $25.00 
Second Prize. A Poem. “A Tree” 
by Lewis Alexander .. 
Third Prize. “How Much Insurance 
Should You Have?”, by Harry 
SM ss s'5 ce ake $10.00 

Second, Economic Prizes offered by 
5 Negro banks and 7 Negro insurance 
societies as follows: 


One First Prize........ $200. 
One Second Prize ...... 150. 
One Third Prize ....... 100. 
Two Fourth Prizes ..... 50. each 
Eight Prizes for Honor- 
able Mention ........ 25. each 
SE $750. 


Entries for these prizes close Decem- 
ber 31, 1928, and the awards will be 
announced in the early spring of 1929. 


Read this and the two previous an- 
nouncements carefully. If you have 


further specific questions, write the 
Editor. 


DARROW 


OTHING more unfortunate has 

happened in the recent history of 
the Negro race than the attitude of 
black ministers in Washington toward 
Clarence Darrow. Here is a man 
whose voice has been raised for right- 
cousness in the face of flattery, money 
and fame. He has dared to use his 
umque genius to defend the rights of 
poor white labor and disfranchised 
Negroes. While the Christian Church 
stands silent, he speaks. When an ap- 
peal to the organized religion of the 
United States brings no audible re- 


June, 1928 





sponse, Clarence Darrow goes down 
into the blood and dust of battle to 
defend the lost cause. 

If religion and Christianity mean 
anything, they mean deeds and not the 
mere words. And yet, the black min- 
isters of Washington are apparently 
more interested in the mouthing of 
creeds and the orthodoxy of men’s be- 
liefs than in the Christianity and un- 
selfishness of their deeds. There is 
not a Negro church in the United 
States that ought not to throw wide 
its doors to Clarence Darrow and beg 
him to come in. He will criticize those 
churches, and they ought to be criti- 
cized. He says frankly and openly 
what their own members say, namely: 
They are spending too much money 
for church edifices, and not enough for 
the social uplift which Christianity 
stands for, if it stands for anything. 

Whenever religion forgets its high 
calling of inspiring faith in human be- 
ings, peace instead of war, unselfish- 
ness instead of greed, and deeds in- 
stead of words; and turns to heresy 
hunting, it brings on itself the con- 
tempt of mankind. The Negro 
Church in the past has been sewn with 
superstition and worldliness, but it has 
always been able to say in its own de- 
tense, We believe in man; and in the 
lowest of men; We open our doors 
to the despised and hunted; We ex- 
tend our charity to all forms and faith. 

It will be a sad time, and the be- 
ginning of its doom when the black 
church turns from this its highest mis- 
sion and goes to burning witches. 





Clarence Darrow does not believe 
many things that Orthodox Christians 
believe; but he respects the beliefs of 
any sincere person and in turn he de- 
serves respect for his own honest opin- 
ions. If the Negro race is going to 
start hunting Heretics, let it pause and 
remember that William Lloyd Garri- 
son, Abraham Lincoln and Frederick 
Douglass were nearly as radical re- 
ligious freethinkers as Clarence Dar- 
row. Nor let them forget that the 
greatest of religious rebels once said 
to a bunch of pettifogging defenders 
of the letter of the law: “Woe unto 


you scribes and Pharisee, hypocrites, 
that strain out a gnat and swallow a 
camel!” 





What difference does it make 
whether the whale swallowed Jonah or 
Jonah swallowed the whale, so long 
as Justice, Mercy and Peace prevail? 





ON TO CALIFORNIA 


LWAYS you have always meant 
to go to California. “Some- 

time”, you have planned to take this 
journey. You want to smell orange 
blossoms; you want to see the Sea 
where the sun sets; you want to ride 
over this great and golden land with 
all its sunshine and flowers, and have 
old dreams and wishes come true. 

Remember that Tomorrow never 
comes. In this hard world it is always 
Today. If you are going to see Cali- 
fornia, you had better see it now. 
There is no sense in putting off travel 
until you are too old and too blind 
and too cross-grained to enjoy it. Here 
and now is your chance and for a 
thousand of you and yet a thousand 
more it is a chance which will never 
come again. The National Associa- 
tion for the Advancement of Colored 
People is going to California in late 
June for its annual meeting. These 
annual meetings are serious affairs, but 
they are not simply serious. They are 
occasions of good fellowship, of seeing 
new things and thinking new thoughts 
and getting new thrills out of life. 

It will cost something to go. Our 
experience is that most things in this 
world cost something, if they are worth 
anything. But $200 and certainly not 
more than $250 ought to give a dweller 
on the Atlantic a chance to see the 
sunset lands of the Pacific in leisure 
and good fellowship. Come on in. 
The water’s fine. 





SUNNY FLORIDA 


HERE is probably no modern 
play-ground whose social founda- 
tion is more utterly false and criminal 
than Florida. Before the boom, Flor- 
ida was a lovely, sleepy semi-tropical 


203 


» aie 







AL ERR LS, 
2 aaa 


















land with a working class predomin- 
antly Negro and with unusually cord- 
ial relations between the races, albeit 
based on the old slave paternalism. 
Then came fruit culture, land exploita- 
tion, fashion propaganda, easy liquor 
and open gambling. The demand for 
labor and service brought a mass of 
immigrants from the neighboring poor 
whites of Georgia and Alabama and 
even further away. A bitter rivalry 
arose between the white and _ black 
workers and the black workers, de- 
prived of political power, went further 
and further to the wall. The white 
workers were debauched by the chances 
of high wage, graft and illegitimate 
methods of making money of all sorts. 

The results of all this could be il- 
lustrated in a hundred ways, but let 
us take one recent case: 

July 15, 1925. In Miami, Police 
Sergeant Tibbits is shot. The police 
have no clue. 

July 16, 1925. A Negro, H. Kier, 
was found shot to death in the North- 
west part of the city near the ball 
park. 

July 17, 1925. Tibbits will re- 
cover. Chief of Police, H. L. Quigg, 
offers a reward of $500 for the ar- 
rest and conviction of his unknown 
assailant. 

March, 1928. Tibbits, now Lieu- 
tenant, together with a city detective, 
are arrested. The Grand Jury in- 
vestigating alleged police brutalities, 
returned indictments against Tibbits 
and others, charging them with the 
murder of Kier. A police detective 
testifying declares that Kier, a bellboy, 
was accused of carrying a message for 
a white man to a white woman asking 
the woman to meet the man. The 
woman’s mother complained to the 
hotel proprietor and identified Kier as 
the messenger. The police were called. 
Kier denied his guilt but was knocked 
to the floor by a policeman’s club. 
When he was able to get up, he said 
that he was guilty. The proprietor 
asked the detective “not to murder the 
boy in my hotel”. They took the 
Negro to police headquarters where 
the Chief of Police, H. L. Quigg, told 
them not to enter any charge against 
him. The policemen took Kier in an 
automobile out to the Northwestern 
part of the city. Then they threw him 
out and tried to shoot him. The first 
shot went wild and struck Tibbits. 
They continued shooting and when 
Kier was dead they left the body on 
the highway and carried Tibbits to the 
hospital. Chief of Police Quigg called 
and advised them to agree on a story. 
He asked the officers to go and hide 
the body, but they refused. They 
agreed, however, to say that the Negro 
had grabbed Tibbits’ gun and that the 
other officers fired in self-defense, in 
case the matter ever came to court. 


204 


March 24, 1928. H. L. Quigg, 
Miami Chief of Police, is charged with 
first degree murder, together with Tib- 
bits and others. 

April 17, their trial begins. 

April 29, Quigg and _ his 
fendants are acquitted. 

‘There was, of course, no chance that 
Quigg and his colleagues would suf- 
fer any severe punishment. It is al- 
leged that for years they have been at 
the head of the ring which sells the 
privilege to gamble and import liquor 
in the city of Miami, and that Quigg 
is a very rich man. 


co-de- 


THE BUSINESS PRIZES 
Providence, R. I. 
EAR SIR: 

I have read your announcement 
concerning the distribution of $750 to 
those who present the best essays on 
“the economic development of the 
Negro”. 

I am of the opinion, though, that 
the best results should be obtained 
from this contest and that they can 
be secured if certain definite directions 
are given to the contestants. As far 
as possible facts should be presented 
in the essays rather than generaliza- 
tions or mere opinions. Instead of 
giving the contestants wide latitude 
in the selection of their topics, better 
results would be obtained if a sug- 
gestive outline were given. 

If such an outline as the following 
were presented it would not only tend 
to make the information more precise, 
but would aid the contestants in writ- 
ing their essays. 

Finance and the Negro 
1. Reasons why Finance Companies 
should operate among Negroes 
Difficulties concerning the opera- 
tion of Finance Companies among 
Negroes 
3. Historical Features 

a. The early stages 


ho 


b. Present day operation and 
management. 
4. Statistical studies involving the 


financial growth. 
5. Relation of the Finance Company 
to the Social Status of the Negro. 


Insurance 

1. Reasons for the formation of Col- 
ored Companies. 
Comparative costs of operation 
Financial growth of the Companies 
Social Aspects involved 

a. Income of the Insured 

b. Physical Condition of Insured 

c. Environment 

d. General Levels of 

gence 

e. Medical Examinations 
5. Investment procedure of the Com- 

panies 


pts 


Intelli- 


Banks 


Historical Features 








Difficulties of operation and Manage. 
ment 

Statistical studies involving the finan. 
cial growth 

The Negro Bank . . . a by-product o 
product of racial development 

Why I would or would not deposit @ 
my funds with Negro Banks 
Merchandising and Manufacturing 

Drug Stores 

Retail Stores 

Chain store operation 

Possibilities of the Negro in Mer. 
chandising 

Manufacturing among Negroes 

Co-operative buying and selling 





Fa See 


“ore 


Agriculture ae ‘ 
Marketing of the products 2 ( 
Modern business methods and Farm 

operation 


ae 


























g 
Education ; 
Commercial 
Business Administration 
This presentation _ immediately 











brings to the forefront certain diff- 
culties, particularly those of obtaining 
materials. This outline, though, 
would probably give the contestants 
certain definite topics to develop. It 
would, too, give them some idea a 
to the procedure to follow in select- 
ing a subject. To write intelligently 
they would have to make some in- 
quiries or investigations. The making 
of inquiries will do more to stimulate 
interest among Negroes in their bus- 
ness enterprises than any other plan. 
Very truly yours, 
WILLIAM Occomy. 
































































































































THE “SECOND GENERATION’ 

ERMIT me to say a kind word 

for “The Second Generation”, 
which seems to be meeting with strenv- 
ous objections from some of your 
readers. I contend that it represented 
wholesome criticism and Mr. Davis's 
strictures against the college-trained 
Negro cannot be answered fairly or 
adequately by the assertion that the 
poem should not have been given space 
in your columns. 

Working in the N. A. A. C. P,,! 
have been particularly struck by the 
indifference of young college men and 
women toward that organization or, in 
fact, toward any other institution seek- 
ing to improve the status of the Negro 
in America. 

Mr. Allison Davis has done nothing 
more than to picture the average Negro 
college student as a perfect imitation 
of his white brother. I think he ’ 
right. The proper answer to give | 
author is facts that deny his implica 
tions. I do not believe they will be 
forthcoming. 













































































Daviw H. Perce. 
Tue Crisis 












hage- 
inan- 
ict or 
eposi 


ring 





Mer. 


Farm 


ke 


I 


diately # 


1 diffi [ 
taining 
hough, 
restants 
op. It 
idea as 
select. © 
ligently 
me in- 
making 
imulate 


ir busi- 
+ plan. 


‘OMY. 


TION’ ¥ 


id word 
ration”, 
1 strenu- 
of your 
resented Ff 
Davis's f 
e-trained 
fairly or 
that the 
ren space 


C. Raa 
< by the 
men and 
ion of, if 
tion seek- | 
he Negro 


e nothing 
ize Negro 
imitation 
ink he is 
» give the 
s implica- 
y will be 


PIERCE. 


1e Crisis 





ATLANTA UNIVERSITY 


IONEER in _ liberal. education. 
P Advantages of a growing city and 
fraternal relations with other institu- 
tions of higher learning. College and 
Normal Departments. Practice teach- 
ing in grade and High School work. 
Graduates make good in Northern Uni- 
versities. 

FOR INFORMATION, Address 


resident, Atlanta University 
™F ATLANTA, GA. 







MorEHOUSE COLLEGE 


(Formerly Atlanta Baptist College) 
ATLANTA, GA. 
College, Academy, Divinity School 
N institution famous within recent 
A years for its emphasis on all sides 
of manly development—the only insti- 
tution in the far South devoted solely 
to the education of Negro young men. 
Graduates given high ranking by 
greatest northern universities. Debat- 
ing, Y. M. C. A., athletics, all live fea- 
tures. 
FOR INFORMATION, Address 
JOHN HOPE, President 


1927 


Clark University 
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 
“Culture for Service” 


QOvEE 100 acres of beautiful campus. Twelve build- 
ings with new $215,000.00 Administration Bulld- 
ing with modern Chapel, La and Gymnasium. 
Clark University offers unusual educational oppor- 
tunities ng men and women. Terms 
reasonable. Departments: College of Arts and Sci- 
ences, Normal Training School, College Preparatory, 
Music and Home Economics. 
For information address 
M. S. DAVAGE, President 


Talladega College 


TALLADEGA, ALABAMA 


Sicty-first Year 
F. A. SUMNER, President 
UP-T0-DATB in ite equipment. High standards 
of scholaship. Thoroughly Christian in its ideals. 












DEPARTMENTS: 
Theological Seminary, College of Arts and 
Science, offering special courses in Educa- 
= Social Service, Music, Physical train- 


Siz hundred students, 65 teachers and workers, 800 
35 team heat 


An ideal place for young men 
and women. Fer further information address 
M. B. MILLER, Registrar. 


Knoxville College 


KNOXVILLE, TENN. 


OPO PP PPP PPP PPP PP PP PPP PPP PPP PPP PPPS 
Beautiful Situation and Healthful Location. 
Best Moral and Spiritual Environment. 
Intellectual Atmosphere. 
Noted for Honest and Thorough Work. 
OPOPO PPP PLP PPP PPP PDP PPP OPP PPPP OPPS 


Pully Accredited for 
ites by State Board. 
Home-like Dormitory Life with Careful Supervision. 
Live Athletic and Literary Interests. 


COURSES: College, N: ™ 
bil, inte ond Mie High School, House 


Bzpenses Very Reasonable 
Catalog and other literature sent free upon request. 
Address: J. KELLY GIFFEN, President. 

ENOXVILIE, TENN. 


















June, 1928 











HOWARD UNIVERSITY | 


WASHINGTON, D. C. 


Founded by General O. O. Howard 


C—: 


MORDECAI W, JOHNSON, President 
EMMETT J. SCOTT, Scretary-Treasurer 


Purpose 


TT () provide the Twelve Million Colored People of 
the United States with College-trained and 
Professional Leaders through its Courses in the 
Arts, the Sciences, in Education, Commerce and 
Finance, Public Health and Hygiene, Music, Engi- 
neering, Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Religion 


and Law. 


Students May Enter for Collegiate Work at the 
Beginning of Any Quarter 


pein CMRF... wv cso dake nedeses 
Summer School..............-sc0eee. 
Ptah: Oearter:s «0. cae vesdewnces:s 


Registration: 


FOR CATALOG AND INFORMATION WRITE: 


deat ahh March 21, 1928 
iste bine June 18, 1928 
... Sept. 24, 25, 26, 1928 


F. D. WILKINSON, Registrar 


HOWARD UNIVERSITY 


The NORTH CAROLINA 


Washington, D. C. 








COLLEGE for NEGROES 


Formerly the Durham State Normal School 
OFFERS THE FOLLOWING COURSES 


1. THE LIBERAL ARTS COURSE 


Leading to the A. B. Degree and offering sufficient work in Secondary 


Education to enable students to secure Hi 


School Teachers’ Cer- 


tificates, Class A, and High School Principals’ Certificates at the com- 


pletion of the course. 


2. THE SCIENTIFIC COURSE 
Leading to the B. S. Degree. 


3. THE PRE-MEDICAL COURSE 


A two-year pre-medical course preparing students for entrance into 


medical colleges will be given. 


4. SPECIAL COURSES IN COMMERCE AND MUSIC 


2  —___ 


The faculty consists of men and women from the best colleges and universities 
in the country and meets the requirements of the North Carolina College Con- 


ference. 


FOR CATALOG AND FURTHER INFORMATION ADDRESS: 


THe NortH CAROLINA COLLEGE For NEGROES 


JAMES E. SHEPARD 
President 
DURHAM, N. C. 





TRAINING OF 
KINDERGARTEN TEACHERS 


ATLANTA UNIVERSITY 


Professional Course of Two Years 
Address 
Atlanta University, Atlanta, Ga. 












a temas 


ea: 


eceinlicnetiaetn tase atica dane ONS ae rer arr we 





i 


i 


Hampton Institute 
Hampton, Virginia 








THE COLLEGE 


1 DIVISION OF EDUCATION—four-year high- 
school teacher’s course leading to degree of 
Bachelor of Science; and two-year courses 

. intermediate and upper-grade 


2 DIVISION OF AGRICULTURE — four-year 
course leading to degree of Bachelor of 
HOME ECONOMICS—four- 
ng to degree of Bachelor 


8 DIVISION OF 
year course leadi 
of Science; and two-year course. 

4 DIVISION OF BUSINESS—four-year course 
leading to degree of Bachelor of Science 
and two-year course—aims te prepare men 
and women for business positions or te teach 
business subjects. 

5 DIVISION OF BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
—four-year course leading to degree of 


6 DIVISION OF LIBRARY SCIENCE—one- 
year professional course—aims to prepare 
librarians for normal schools, colleges and 
branch libraries in city systems. 

’ THE SUMMER SCHOOL—courses leading te 
degree of Bachelor of Science and State 
Certificates. 


DIVISION OF MUSIC—four-year course lead- 
ing to degree of Bachelor of Science. 


THE ACADEMY 


A standard four-year accredited high school, 
preparing for college entrance. 


TRADE SCHOOL 
Four-year courses in each of twelve trades. 


JAMES E. GREGG, Principal 
HAMPTON INSTITUTE, Virginia 






The TUSKEGEE NORMAL and 
—— INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE 


Meharry Medical College -:-:- 


Registered with New York Board of 
of Medicine, Dentistry, 

wired for admission w the 
School or Norma’ 





Regents 
ie = of Medicine and of 
1 School required for admission to the 


THERE IS AN ESPECIALLY GREAT DEMAND 
ess: FOR OUR DENTISTS. 
JOHN J. MULLOWNEY, M.D., President of Meharry Medical College, NASHVILLE, TENN. 


Agriculturai and Technical 


College of North Carolina 
AT GREENSBORO 
An “A” Grade College 
An Agricultural ent 


Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 
Agriculture. i 

A Technical Department 
Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engi- 
neering and itectural Engineering. 


A Science Department 
or leading to the degree of Bachelor 
ience. 
A Department of Education 
Courses leading to the degree of B.S. in 


Education, for the training of Vocational 
Teachers. 

A Trade Department 
Offering the following trades: Bricklaying, 
Plastering, Carpentry, Cabinet Making, 
Automobile Mechanics, Machine Shop Prac- 
tice, Eateriog. Shoe Making and Repairing, 
Plumbing, Electricity, Forging. 

A Standard Technical High School 
A High School which prepares students for 
College and for Vocations. 

A Strong Business Department 
Courses in ay sseeering, Book- 
keeping, Commercial Law. 


MODERN EQUIPMENT 
SPLENDID LOCATION 
MODERATE EXPENSES 


FALL TERM BEGINS SEPT. 14, 1928 
For further information, address 
F. D. BLUFORD, President 

A. & T. COLLEGE 
Greensboro, N. C. 





Y 


— 


Founded by Booker T. WASHINGTON 


Opes Exceptional Opportunities to Negro Youth for Thorough Education in 
igh School and College Courses and in Agriculture, Mechanical Industries and 
in Industries for Women. 





THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANI- 
CAL INDUSTRIES for Boys 
ferty trades try, 
la Auto-M i 


ity, Photography, Printing, Machine Shop 
Practice eT Tlicie 


THE WOMAN’S INDUSTRIES include 
H os : 


Clothing, Millinery, ° : 
ing, Household Me it in addition t 
Home Crafts and Ladies’ Tailorin g. ; 


THE AGRICULTURAL DEPART- 
MENT with 1850 acres of land offers a 


. Demonstration 
Sgeate Teachers of Agriculture and as 
tific Farmers. 


TWO-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES are 
offered in Education for the training of 


Robert R. Moton, Principal 


Y 


Teachers in Elementary Schools, for 
Teachers of Mechanical Industries; in 
Business Practice; in Home Economics; 
and in Technical Arts. 


FOUR-YEAR COLLEGE COURSES 
leading to the Bachelor of Science de; 
are offered in Agriculture, in Home O- 
nomics, and in Education. 


THE HN A. ANDREW MEMO- 
RIAL HOSPITAL and Nurse Training 
School provides a three-year course in 
Nurse Training which qualifies its gradu- 
ates for registration in all southern states. 


A SUMMER SCHOOL FOR TEACH- 
ERS, of a ea Grins into cone Sonn, 

ginning June Ist and meeting the re- 
quirements of the Boards of Education of 
all southern states. 


Location Unsurpassed 
Information furnished upon application 


William H. Carter, Treasurer 


TUSKEGEE INSTITUTE, ALABAMA 








Days 
(Continued from page 188) 


Then followed the days that the 
Randolphs remained,—more golden 
days.—The days when Mr. Randolph 
came to have the time-o’day speaking 
acquaintance with his neighbors in the 
evening, and Mrs. Randolph came to 
give the children of the neighborhood 
piano lessons and receive their adorn 
tion and their little bunches of flowers 
in return. Days when the women 
learned to enjoy her music and admire 
her beautiful home and to marvel at 
her fine standards ;—days when they 
tried to fix up their own places and 
copy her taste—days when the men 
came to respect Mr. Randolph, the 
man, as well as his name and power; 
—days when all was well. 

All golden days—golden days in 
warm, golden months—and fulfilled 
promises everywhere—radiance and 
kindly feeling. 


* * * 


ND then, finally, there was the 

day that the Randolphs moved, 
—a gray day. A gray day in a sultry 
month,—rain clouds,—misty air, drab 
stdewalks and gray mood. Gray mood 
and sorrow everywhere,—sorrow and 
regret. 

Those nice colored people were mov- 
ing away. What a shame! They 
wanted their own home, of course, but 
if Rocci hadn’t been such a fool when 
he served the notice, they might have 
stayed,—one year anyway. Why, the 
rotter actually swore at Mrs. Randolph 
when she told him that she couldn't 
possibly know that he wouldn’t recog- 
nize her race. She had come from 
parts where one’s face made no differ- 
ence in one’s status, so it was honest 
and clean. She had wanted him to talk 
with her husband in the first place. 
The dirty rotten foreigner! Her hus- 
band -couldn’t forget that. You 
couldn’t blame him. 

Such lovely people,—so clean and 
nice. And such high class company. 
Just like white people. And that little, 
fat friend with the round, brown face 
and the big, black eves, who was al- 
ways there, actually had her own car! 
And so many changes of clothes,—hats 
too, and never any men hanging about 
her, either. Gee! they made Mrs. 
O’Hennessy feel cheap. It was 4 
shame they were leaving. Gee! 

With avid and pitying interest the 
neighbors watched,—watched the men 
sling the pretty new furniture into the 
vans and struggle under the beautiful 
baby grand piano,—watched until the 
rag man had scraped up the last choice 
debris,—watched until the last load 
left—watched until Mrs. Randolph 


Tue Crisis 








J 
; 
I 
i 
' 





» 
% 
y 

a 
‘oo 





Ferns 


7 


C 


SPZ4°c re 





= 















- the 
iden 
Jolph 
aking 
n the 
ne to 
rhood 
dora- 
Owers 
romen 
dmire 
vel at 
| they 
Ss and 
> men 
h, the 


OWET; 





ays in 
slfilled 
and 


yas the 
moved, 
. sultry 
r, drab 
y mood 
yw and 


re mov- 
They 
rse, but 
yl when © 
ht have © 
Thy, the 
andolph 
couldn't 
t recog- 
1e from 
o differ- 
; honest 
n to talk 
st place. 
Ter hus- 
You 


ie OF i 


ean and 
‘ompany. 
rat little, 
ywn face 
was al- 
ywn car! 
es,—hats 
ng about 
de Mrs. 
+ was 4 
| 
erest the 
the men 
» into the 
beautiful 
until the 
ast choice 
last load 
Randolph 


e Crisis 













Lincoln University 
ee 


Pioneer in Collegiate and 
Theological Education 





the Association a. Seman of 
asadle States and Mary 


OPP L LISS 


duates are Leaders in the 
Lifeione proceso and in all parts of the 





Accredited | 








Address: 
Wm. Hallock Johnson, President 
LINCOLN UNIVERSITY 
CHESTER COUNTY PENNSYLVANIA 







VIRGINIA UNION 
UNIVERSITY 


RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
RATED as a class A college by the 
State Boards of Education in Vir- 
ginia and North Carolina, 
in addition to the general college cur- 
riculum, work is offered in the follow- 
ing departments : 
Teachers College Pre-Medical 
Theological Law 
Commercial 


For additional information 
address THE PRESIDENT 





SHAW UNIVERSITY 


Founded 1865 
Devoted exclusively to College 
and Theological work. 


“A” class college having a prestige in 7 
gro education. Given graduate te manding D z 
universities of the North. With no hig 
school, increasing emphasis is placed upon 
college standards and the promotion of col- 
lege spirit in scholarship and athletics. 

_ De ven: A.B., B.S., Th.B. and B.S. 

io Some = 

Special attention is given to the training 
of teachers. , moderate. pond or 

gure, Add: stv PEACOCK, Presi- 

dent, HAW UN VERSITY, RALEIGH, 
NORTH CAROLIN 


JOHNSON C. SMITH 
UNIVERSITY 


(Formerly Biddle University) 
FOUNDED 1867 


FOR MEN ONLY 


CLASS — College and High School, so 
recognized by the North Carolina State 
Board of Education. A Standard Theological 
. Member of the Association of Col- 

leges for ‘Negro Youth. Large endowment. 


FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, address 


H. L. McCROREY, President 
Charlotte, North Carolina 






The Ancrum School of Music 


in Piano, Pipe Organ, Violin, 

vee = Solfeggio, Harmony, Composition. 

England tory method. cellent 
faculty. Fine dormitory rooms 


Director: MAS. ESTELLE ANCRUM FORSTER 


Graduate N.E.C., 1919-20. 
SEND ror Year BOOK. ADDRESS: 


June, 1928 

















% W. Rutland Sq., Boston, Mass. 


gave a final gingerly pat to the many, 
many dainty dresses laid for safe-carry- 
ing on the rear seat of Bunny’s coupe, 
—watched as she settled herself wearily 
against the little, fat brown friend as 
the latter shifted into gear. 


HEN: 

Over came the Italian shoemaker, 
—the handsome, gentle, diffident shoe- 
maker, with the big, beseeching, tragic, 
child-eyes and the soft, alluring voice 
and manners. Out came the neighbors. 

“I sorry you go,” ventured Tony 
shyly. “I so sorry. You fine lady. 
Your husband—he fine man. I sorry.” 
(It is impossible to describe the in- 
flection of his tone). “No more nice 
music.” ; 

His voice choked on the last phrase 
and water welled up in the gentle eyes. 
He shook his head dumbly and moved 
away. 

“No more nice music.—I sorry you 

“Aw, cheer up, Tony,” Mrs. Heery 
attempted jocosely. ‘Come over an’ 
git them tan shoes o’ Mick’s tonight 
an’ you'll feel better. Mrs. Randolph 
ain’t goin’ so far away she can’t come 
back sometimes, huh?” But her own 
hard Irish eyes filled with moisture 
just the same. “It’s a darn shame 
you’re movin’ away, Mrs. Randolph. 
We'll miss you.” 

“Yea, we will that,” vouchsafed 
Mrs. O’Kelley honestly. ‘Seems like 
it’s kind o’ hard to part, we got so 
used to you.” 

“May-be when you're down this 
way sometimes,—shoppin’ or on your 
way tothe Tubes or somethin’ you'll 
stop in sometimes, huh?” 

“Yea, an’ play fer us a little, huh? 
I guess I could scare up a cup o’ tea an’ 
a little grub,—some o’ them sausages 
an’ a little o’ that pickle you liked so 
much, yea?” 

“Well, good-bye and good-luck to 
you!” 

And all along the block, they waved 
and called good-bye as Mrs. Randolph 
kissed her hand to the charming nest 
which love had made so dear, and took 
a last look at her beautiful, little home, 
—her first home with her husband. 

A gray day.—A gray day in a rainy 
month, mist and sadness everywhere,— 
sadness and regret. 

* . 


Just days. 


So the Girl Marries 
(Continued from page 193) 
Absence, too, resulted in the unex- 
pected increase in Parent-valuation. 
Mother was enshrined and worshipped 
by the absent Girl; no longer was she 
merely convenient and at times in the 
way. She was desperately adored. 
Even Father took on unaccustomed im- 





VIRGINIA NorRMAL AND 
INDUSTRIAL INSTITUTE 


(Virginia State College for Negro Youth) 
PETERSBURG, VIRGINIA 
Classed as an “‘A”’ college by Virginia and North 
Carolina 


The College offers an excellent FACULTY, good 
physical conditions, —- leading to degrees in 
the Arts and Sciences, Eudcation, usic, Home 


a 
Spring Quarter opens March 17 and Summer Quar- 
ter June 16. Expenses moderate. 


For further information write to 
Miss J. Louise Barrett, Registrar 






















The Cardinal 


Gibbons Institute 


RIDGE, ST. MARY’S COUNTY, 
MARYLAND 

A school for Negro pene men and wo- 

men of character and purpose. Course of 


Junior High School grade offered for the 
coming year. 


General Mechanics, Agriculture and Do- 
mestic Science are taught in parallel courses. 


Living conditions simple, healthful, well- 
supervised, 


For further information, address 


Victor H. Daniel, Principal, 
Ridge, Maryland 





Bethune-Cookman 
College 


(Formerly The Daytona Normal 
and Industrial Inst.) 


DAYTONA BEACH, FLORIDA 
Locks Sone sign. ef Matin, ds tetas 


opportunity is afforded for the highest and best in 
education. Offering courses in 


JUNIOR COLLEGE 
Normal Training School for Teachers 
College Preparatory 


S PECIAL work offered in Commerce, Music, Do- 
mestic Science and Art, Agriculture and Car- 
pentry. 


Athletics encouraged for Boys and Girls. 
ae 


Dormitory Facilities unsurpassed. 





FOR INFORMATION, Write to 
Mary McLeod Bethune, President 





EpwarpD WATERS COLLEGE 


JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 


An Ideal Christian Home Sebest im the Heart 
of Beautiful Florida 
For students unable to stand the rigors 
of a Northern winter. 
Grammar eaenet oi sane High School, 
Senior Hi ae Scone Normal School, 
School of ology. Muse Commercial 
Courses, College Courses leading to 
B.A. Degree, Manual Training, Domes- 
tic Science and Art, Band, Military 
Training for men, Physical education 
for women. 


Albert B. , Pres 
Bishep Jehan Hurst. =... Geard ef Trustees 





207 


ALS ind 8S 


nase ele 
ang ar CRRA LE NE 

















































Paine College 


AUGUSTA, GA. 
Standard College Courses 


Approved Two-Year Normal 
Accredited Senior High School 
Up-to-Date Junior High School 


“To develop leaders you must have 
the best possible equipment for liter- 
ary training and that is what we are 
striving for at Paine College”, said 
one of the leaders of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church, South. This Church 
contributes largely to the support of 
Paine College. 





ANA 
rae 


A Goop ScHooL aT REASONABLE 
RATES 


For further information, address 
RAY S. TOMLIN, President 
PAINE COLLEGE 





ihe Atlanta School 


of Social W ork 


INCORPORATED 





GOOD PAYING JOBS 
FOR 
TRAINED NEGROES 
IN SOCIAL WORK 





Prepares Men and Women 
for This Interesting 
Profession. 





A NEW DIRECTOR AND AN EX- 
PANDED PROGRAM THIS YEAR. 


For Further Information, Address 
the Director. 


Forrester B. Washington, A.M. 
Atlanta School of Social Work 
239 Auburn Avenue Northeast 

Atlanta, Georgia 








. . . Louisville, Ky. 
Simmons University, uisyil!s, Ky 
institution in the State having for its 

Ministerial, Medical and Legal 
training for Colored Citizens in Kentucky. 
Special training in Insurance, Social Service, Nurs- 
ing and Hospital Work. 
Normal, Commercial, Music, Domestic Science, 
Missionary Training Class. 


Evening classes, dence course. Degrees 
offered. c. y PARRISH, President. 








portance and dignity and found new 
place in the scheme of things. We both 
felt quite set up. 

Then graduation and a Woman ap- 
peared in the family. A sudden woman 
—-sedate, self-contained, casual, grown; 
with a personality—with wants, ex- 
penses, plans. “There will be a caller 
tonight.”—‘“Tomorrow night I’m go- 
ing out.” 

It was a bit disconcerting, this trans- 
forming of a rubber ball of childish 
joy into a lady whose address was at 
your own house. I acquired the habit 
of discussing the world with this 
stranger—as impersonally and coolly 
as possible: teaching—travel—reading 
—art—wmarriage. I achieved quite a 
detached air, letting the domineering 
daddy burst through only at intervals, 
when it seemed impossible not to re- 
mark—“It’s midnight, my dear,” and 
“when is the gentleman going? You 
need sleep!” 


Y part in Mate-selection was ad- 

mittedly small but I flatter my- 
self not altogether negligible. We 
talked the young men over—their 
fathers and grandfathers; their educa- 
tion; their ability to earn particular 
sorts of living; their dispositions. All 
this incidentally mind you—not di- 
dactically or systematically. Once or 
twice I went on long letter hunts for 
facts; usually facts were all too clear 
and only deductions necessary. What 
was the result? I really don’t know. 
Sometimes I half suspect that the Girl 
arranged it all and that I was the large 
and solemn fly on the wheel. At other 
times I flatter myself that I was astute, 
secret, wise and powerful. Truth 
doubtless lurks between. So the Girl 
marries. 

I remember the Boy came to me 
somewhat breathlessly one Christmas 
eve with a ring in his pocket. I told 
him as I had told others. “Ask her— 
she’ll settle the matter; not I.” But 
he was a nice boy. A rather unusual 
bey with the promise of fine manhood. 
I wished him luck. But I did not dare 
plead his cause. I had learned—well, 
I had learned. 

Thus the world grew and blossomed 
and changed and so the Girl marries. 
It is the end of an era—a sudden break 
and beginning. I rub my eyes and re- 
adjust my soul. I plan frantically. 
It will be a simple, quiet ceremony— 

“In a church, father!” 

“Oh! in a church? Of course, in a 
church. Well, a church wedding 
would be a little larger, but: y 

“With Countée’s father and the 
Reverend Frazier Miller assisting.” 

“To be sure—well, that is possible 
and, indeed, probable.” 

“And there will be sixteen brides- 
maids.” 

One has to be firm somewhere— 





“But my dear! who ever heard of six. 
teen bridesmaids!’ 

“But Papa, there are eleven Moies 
and five indispensables and Mar. 
garet—” 


HY argue? What has to be, must 

be; and this evidently had to be 

I struggled faintly but succumbed 

Now with sixteen bridesmaids and ten 

ushers must go at least as many invited 
guests. 

You who in travail of soul have 
struggled with the devastating puzzle 
of selecting a small bridge party out of 
your total of twenty-five intimate 
friends, lend me your sympathy! For 
we faced the world-shattering problem 
of selecting for two only children, the 
friends of a pastor with twenty-five 
years service in one church; and the 
friends of a man who knows good 
people in forty-five states and three 
continents. I may recover from it but 
I shall never look quite the same. | 
shall always have a furtive feeling in 
my soul. I know that at the next cor- 
ner I shall meet my Best Friend and 
remember that I forgot to invite him. 
Never in all eternity can I explain. 
How can I say: “Bill, I just forgot 
you!” Or “My dear Mrs. Blubenski, 
I didn’t remember where on earth you 
were or indeed if you were at all or 
ever!” No, one can’t say such things. 
I shall only stare at them pleadingly, 
in doubt and pain, and slink wordlessly 
away. 

Thirteen hundred were bidden to the 
marriage and no human being has one 
thousand three hundred friends! Five 
hundred came down to greet the bride 
at a jolly reception which I had orig- 
inally planned for twenty-five. Of 
course, I was glad they were there. 
I expanded and wished for a thousand. 
Three thousand saw the marriage and 
a thousand waited on the streets. It 
was a great pageant; a heart-swelling 
throng; birds sang and Melville Charl- 
ton let the organ roll and swell be- 
neath his quivering hands. A sweet 
young voice sang of Love; and then 
came the holy: 

“Freudig gefuert, Ziehet dahin!” 


HE symbolism of that procession 

was tremendous. It was not the 
mere marriage of a maiden. It was not 
simply the wedding of a fine young 
poet. It was the symbolic march of 
young and black America. America, 
because there was Harvard, Columbia, 
Smith, Brown, Howard, Chicago, 
Syracuse, Penn and Cornell. There 
were three Masters of Arts and four- 
teen Bachelors. There were poets an 
teachers, actors, artists and students. 
But it was not simply conventional 
America—it had a dark and shimmer- 
ing beauty all its own; a calm and hig! 
restraint and sense of new power; tt 


Tue Crisis 


BT Eee, 











f six. 


Toles, 
Mar. 


must 
to be, 
mbed, 
id ten 
nVited 


have 
uzzle 
out of 
timate 
For 
‘oblem 
n, the 
ty-five 
id the 
; good 

three 
it but 
me. | 
ling in 
xt cor- 
id and 
e him. 
xplain. 
forgot 
ibenski, 
rth you 
all or 
things. 
dingly, 
rdlessly 


n to the 
has one 

Five 
1e bride 
ad orig- 
e. Of 
> there. 
\ousand, 
age and 
ets. It 
swelling 
e Charl- 
well be- 
A sweet 
nd then 


ahin!” 


rocession 
not the 
was not 
e young 
narch of 
America, 
‘olumbia, 
Chicago, 

There 
ind four- 
yoets and 
students. 
ventional 
shimmer- 


and high 


yower; it 


g Crisis 





























-lwenly 





inth Annual Report 
¢ The NATIONAL BENEFIT ieE INSURANCE COMPANY 


OF WASHINGTON, D.C. 
December 31, 1927 


The consolidated balance sheet below 
shows, in totals more impressive than any 
ever before rendered by a Negro business 
institution, the financial condition of this 
Company on the eve of its entry into this 
its Thirtieth Anniversary Year. 


Assets of nearly six millions, with insur- 
ance in force exceeding seventy millions, 
seem in themselves to amply warrant the 
naming of the Company as ‘“‘the greatest 
Negro business enterprise in the world”’; 
a name which, won by the honorable effort 
of thirty years, we naturally take great 
pride in. 


But it is not these impressive totals them- 
selves that is the important thing. The 
really important thing is the measure of 
actual, concrete benefit which they repre- 
sent, 


And the measure of that benefit, of that 
service, to the Race is the measure of the 
importance of this Company, and is its 
real title to the name of the Race’s great- 
est business enterprice. 





ASSETS 
Real Estate Owned.... $1,138,272.53 
Mortgage Loans on Real Estate 217,777.53 
Golinteral LAAMS ...ccccccceses 91,100.00 
Policy Loans and Premium Notes 616,872.93 
Bonds and Stocks....... -.-» 1,265,918.80 
Cash on Hand and in Banks.. ‘ 513,863.85 
Net Due and Deferred Premiums 315,626.91 


mms and Rents due and Ac- 

i hie ccknenenk ass's one% 119,090.83 
Policy Liens and Lien Account 1,531,733.19 
NE BOWES on ues vaes 28,942.05 


Total Spee eenthceas .. $5,839,198. 62 








As a result of the concentrated power of 
these millions flowing through Negro busi- 
ness channels, not only are hundreds of 
thousands of Negro men and women, and 
their children, protected and safeguarded 
but the whole economic structure of Negro 
life is buttressed and girdered, and the 
range of Opportunity for Negroes is broad- 
ened and amplified. 


The resources of this Company constitute 
a great trust fund, made up of the pen- 
nies and the dollars of a vast cross-section 
of our Race. They are held and admin- 
istered as a trust of the most sacred kind 
in the interest of the individual and the 
Race, and they form one of its most ef- 
fective means of advancement. 


Add your dollars to the flow of other 
Negro dollars through Negro business 
channels for your own protection ond ad- 
vantage aud the future of your children. 


RH. Rutherford 














HIGH LIGHTS OF 1927 


New Policies Issued... 186,822 
Premium Income...... $3,418,419.25 
Death Claims Paid.... $598,427.82 
New Insurance Issued .$39,183,998.00 





June, 1928 


President. 
LIABILITIES 
Legal Reserve on Policies...... $3,526,132.00 
Claims Pending and in Process 
GS BOE occ cccsscsceses 113,824.04 
Commissions, Fees, Rents and 
Expense Due and Accrued.... 44,549.03 
Reserve for Taxes, Interest and 
Premiums Paid in Advance. . 85,681.91 
Agents Security Deposit ....... 44,124.45 
Deferred Bond Purchase Pay- 
ments & Bills Payable ‘ 592,649.51 
All other Liabilities .... 8,818.32 
Surplus to Policyholders. 423,419.36 
MED. pS.c¢osakld C4 dase cd $5,839,198. 62 
Interest and Rents..... $148,209.77 
Matured Endowments 
Health and Disability 
Claims Paid ........ $435,436.40 





TOTAL INSURANCE IN FORCE ~ ~ hie. 897,069.00 











was a new race; a new thought; a new 
thing rejoicing in a ceremony as old 
as the world. (And after it all and 
before it, such a jolly, happy crowd; 
some of the girls even smoked cig- 
arettes !) 

Why should there have been so much 
of pomp and ceremony—flowers and 
carriages and silk hats; wedding cake 
and wedding music? After all mar- 
riage in its essence is and should be 
very simple: a clasp of friendly hands; 
a big p. away together of Two who 

“Let us try to be One and face 
aad fight a lonely world together!” 
What more? Is that not enough? 
Quite; and were I merely white I 
should have sought to make it end with 
this. 


UT it seems to me that I owe 

something extra to an Idea, a 
Tradition. We who are black and 
panting up hurried hills of hate and 
hindrance—we have got to establish 
new footholds on the slipping by-paths 
through which we come. They must 
at once be footholds of the free and the 
eternal, the new and the enthralled. 
With all of our just flouting of white 
convention and black religion, some 
things remain eternally so—Birth, 
Death, Pain, Mating, Children, Age. 
Ever and anon we must point to these 
truths and if the pointing be beautiful 
with music and ceremony or bare with 
silence and darkness—what matter? 
The width or narrowness of the gesture 
is a matter of choice. That one will 
have it stripped to the essence. It is 
still good and true. This soul wants 
color with bursting cords and scores of 
smiling eyes in happy raiment. It must 
be as this soul wills. The Girl wills 
this. So the Girl marries. 

W. E. B. D. 


N.A.A.C.P. 
(Continued from page 194) 


the thousands of colored people who 
would wish to help the work of the 
N. A. A. C. P. materially but are un- 
able to do so. 

It is felt that so signal an act of 
faith in the work and the program of 
the N. A. A. C. P. and so generous a 
gift as is involved in a $500 subscrip- 
tion to the Association, merit special 
recognition. Accordingly the Associa- 
tion has arranged that a bronze plaque 
inscribed with the names of life mem- 
bers be kept on view at the National 
Office, 69 Fifth Avenue, New York. 
Furthermore, a small bronze medal 
has been made, to be presented to life 
members with appropriate ceremony on 
some public occasion. 

The response to the Life Member- 
ship project has been most encourag- 
ing. Two people are now full-fledged 
life members of the N. A. A. C. P. 


209 





as i ttt Aa Nap en 


ee 


















































You can’t afford to miss reading 


DR. DuBOIS’ 


powerful new novel 


DARK PRINCESS 


HIS is Dr. DuBois’s first work of fiction since his well-remem- 
bered “Darkwater”. In it he reveals new and vigorous pow- 
ers. The hero of the novel, a young American Negro fleeing 

from racial discrimination—and the heroine—a Princess of India— 
become involved in a movement for the emancipation of the dark 
races. This powerful and dramatic story moves from Berlin to 
Chicago and Atlanta. $2.00 


If your bookstcre does not carry it, order direct from Tue Crisis office or from the 
publishers, 


Harcourt, Brace and Company 
383 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK 


AGENTS WANTED Are you energetic and enterprising? Are 


you interested in the development of the 
$4. to $10 per day Colored people? Are you interested 

in seeing members of the race buy and 
read good books, become self-educated and enterprising citizens? Is 
your income perfectly satisfactory, or would you like to make about $1 
per hour for a little extra time put in for us in your community? 


Have you given any thought to race problems? Are you a thinker? 
Please pause a moment and consider the GOOD YOU MAY DO by 
selling our publications, NATIONAL CAPITAL CODE OF ETI- 
QUETTE, PROGRESS AND ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE COL- 
ORED PEOPLE, DUNBAR’S POEMS, KELLY MILLER’S HIS- 
TORY OF THE WAR, EMMETT SCOTT’S WAR HISTORY, 
DUBOIS’ DARKWATER, FLOYD’S STORIES and other special 
books on the race and our full line of Bibles and religious books. 


School teachers and students should give this proposition their 
careful attention. $4 to $10 per day can be easily made by working 
for us during vacation. WRITE TODAY. 


AUSTIN JENKINS COMPANY 


523 Ninth St. N. W. Washington, D. C. 


Learn It—Remember It EXTRA MONEY FOR YOU 


Take orders for our popularly priced line of 
6 aes og mis good) Summer Course in Calling Cards, Deshaae Peed. Protaras! 
orthand, ing, Bookk Cards and Monogrammed Stationery. Good 


i starts at The S i aie 

os , pay; big d d; outfit f hed. 
a S iith St., Phila. Ban June ‘th and nr Spano urnishe Write for 
standard of efficiency. Write Edward T. THE HOUSE OF CHOWNING 





Duncan, Principal. | 627 Cleveland Ave. Indianapolis, iad. | 


They are John B. Nail and Dr, Ey. 












est R. Alexander, both of New York 
City. The following have paid initial 
subscriptions toward life membership; 
Tracy W. Champion, Chicago; Hon, 
Harry E. Davis, Mrs. Louise W. 
Davis, Dr. Charles H. Garvin, all of 
Cleveland; Paul E. Johnson, Chicago: 
Booker L. Jordan, Richmond, Va: 
John E. Nail, New York; Fran 
Ryder Trigg and Dr. J. R. A. Webb 
of Norfolk, Va.; Dr. A. Wilberforce 
Williams, Chicago; and Dr. Louis T. 
Wright, New York. 


The Little Page 
(Continued from page 195) 
Each kind off to itself. 


I love to go and watch her make 5 
A long legged ginger man. : 


She cuts her ginger men alike, 
And lays them on the pan, 
And you can watch them brown. 


She gives each one round eyes and nose, © 
And there they lie in little rows. ‘s 
And then you buy your favorite one F 
When all the cooky men are done. & 
But that’s not all I have to tell 
About Miss Grenda’s place. 

A tall young man with coal black hair 
And long nosed olive face 

Sits by the door in snow white hat, 
White coat and trowsers too, 

And holds a bright green parrot up 
That has a touch of blue. 


The parrot walks along his arm 
And gets against his cheek— 

I wouldn’t like that beak— 

And nestles till the young man goes 
To mind Miss Grenda’s cooky rows. 
This parrot really has its perch 
That’s way back in the store. 

The young man takes it here to sleep— | 
That’s what the perch is for. ' 





And then I go on home again, 
Eating my ginger man. 

I'd like to keep him till I’m there— 
It seems I never can. 

I eat his long legs first. 

That makes him look so bad, 

I nibble then till he’s all gone, 

And I believe he’s glad! 


An Eclipse 


HEN the sun is going to arise, 
Mrs. Moon just has shut her eyes. 
Mr. Sun tries to kiss her lips, 
And then we have a nice Eclipse. 
By Nathan Burnett, Age 9, 





Perhaps the Elves Must Say : 


HO swung May blooms here at 
door 

And softly stole away— 7 

Hepaticas, bloodroots galore— 

Before tite break of day? 

Each flower’s as dear as it can be, 

And then that lovely mystery! 

Vho hung these violets from my door ' 
lightly stepped away? 

I’ve asked this question once before. 

Pernaps the elves must say. 


Tue Crisis 















‘here— 


0 arise, 

it her eyes. 
ipse. 

t, Age 9. 


ist. Say 
here at 07 


can be, 
| 
my door 


- before. 


HE Crisis 











Pictures of 
Distinguished 
Negroes 


Excellent photographs 11 x 14, 
finished in black tone, large 
—- to be framed and placed 


on t 
home. 


e walls of your school or 


Price $1.00 each. 
Small pictures of 100 distin- 


guished _ Negroes, 
prints, 3% x 4%. 


half-tone 


Price 10 cents a piece, $1 a 
dozen, ond GA 5 benived. 


The Associated Publishers, Inc., 1538 Ninth St. N. W., Washington, D. C. 





Bimala Incense 


Imported Incense Burner 


Oriental Perfume 


BIMALA HINDOO INCENSE 


used extensively in the homes and 
churches 


People are talking about “‘Bimala Incense” 
in the street car, in churches, and every- 
where. Such fragrance, such loveliness, such 
oriental sweetness is for the first time 
brought into the homes of man. If you are 
a housewife or a working girl, a husband or 
a batchelor, a poet or a priest, try Bimala 
Incense once and see what joy you have 
missed hitherto in your life. Let it burn 
= you work, read, think, pray, talk, 

or dream, see what an unearthly 
ol tment be yours. Order now and let the 

Bimala Incense create an oriental atmos- 

phere at your home. 


Bimala Incense comes in four delicate 
odors, Rose, Jasmin, Orangeblossom, and 
Sandlewood. If it is hard for you to obtain 
Bimala Incense at your drug store, write 
order c/o BIMALA INCENSE, P. O. Box 
1508, Detroit, Mich. 


Goersee 
10 cents for a trial box 


Bimala Incense. 
FOR MAIL ORDER 
SMALL BOX.......... «ss... 30 Cents 
LARGE BOX .. 60 Cents 
Agents Wanted Everywhere 


HINDU INCENSE 
P. O. Box 1508, Detroit, Mich. 





The Stenographers’ Institute 


We mech shorthand that ene can 


Burrell Memorial Hospital 
Training School for Nurses 


ROANOKE, VA. 
——_——_—___ 
State accredited. Three year course 
in general nursing. 50 bed hospital. 
On approved list of American Col- 
lege of Surgeons. Free tuition, board 
and room, text-books, uniforms ; also 
monthly cash allowance. Ideal loca- 
tion, 1,000 feet above sea level. Only 
High School graduated admitted. 


—_— 
Write to, Ethel M. Bigham, R. N. 
Supt. of Nurses 











Gives more laughs and puts more cash inte the 
Treasury t any’ Entertainment” that a Church or 
Club can have. Everybody likes to attend the 


Slabtown District 
Convention 


It is a scream and at the same time it is Sense— 
Because it teaches a number of good lessons. 


GET IT AND GIVE IT—PRICE 50c 
Miss Nannie H 


. Burroughs 
Author and Publisher 
| LINCOLN HEIGHTS WASHINGTON, D. C. 


known ss Duncan’s Business School 


Srenesaer sens EFFICIENTLY TRAINED 
read and be; students are taught to man’ 


manipulate typewriting machines 
aa" rapidly and accurately; business law is fascinating; and our bookkesping and filing” system is 
A HIGH STANDARD OF ae 


I =. eons has = educational qualification and willingness to 


a few months. Sum 
EMPLOYMENT SERVICE: 
1227 $. 127TH ST. ED 


GIRLS’ DORMITORIES 
1424 Christian Street 
Philadelphia, Pa. 


Heme Privileges and Special 
and Professional W: 


MISS JESSIE M. WATKINS, Supt. 


June, 1928 


WARD T. DUNCAN, Principal 


THE FRANCIS E. W. HARPER 


Rates to Students 
omen. 





incessantly, the course may be 


mer om ae om 4, oo sila ab ends August 


3I 
y—Clerleal, Domestic and otherwise. 
PHILA., PA. 





THE GREAT 


WORLD’S FAIR 


LINIMENT 


CURES all Aches and Pains, Rheumatism, 
Lame Backs, Stiff Joints, Etc. Best_known 
remedy for FLU. Price $1.00—Catalog Free. 
S. D. LYON, 316 N. Central, 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 





Along the Color Line 


(Continued from page 201) 
is: Whether or not 13,000 white col- 
onists should have supreme control 
over 2,500,000 Africans who supply 
two thirds of the revenue. Major 
Church debated support for the Euro- 
peans in furnishing labor while Dr. 
Leys opposed this. Indians took part 
in the debate. Dr. Harold Lasky 
brought out the fact that the prosperity 
of West Africa and the poverty of 
East Africa is a question of ownership 
and rights over the land. 

@. Professor Kleine of Koch Institute 
has told the Berlin Medical Society 
that proper organization by colonial 
powers could exterminate sleeping sick- 
ness by purely medical means. The 
remedy known as Bayer 205 has been 
extraordinarily effective. 

@ Mrs. Laura Knight, A. R. A., has 
been exhibiting in the Lester Galleries 
of London drawings of different types 
of Africans. They are especially noted 
for their luminosity and luster in the 
tints of Negro skins. 


Browsing Reader 
(Continued from page 202) 
demarcation that are found when we 
divide one biological species from an- 


other.”  . EB: D. 


IN THE MAGAZINES 


G A. STEWART in Social 
- Forces for March disputes the 
authenticity of the name, New Negro, 
in convincing terms, “The New Ne- 
gro Hokum”, says Mr. Stewart, ap- 
proaches the nth degree of bunk and 
young black America is being “put 
over” on the gullible public in the 
greatest publicity stunt staged since the 
World War. He says Negroes are 
more articulate now than they were 
yesteryear; they have their own press; 
the columns of erudite monthlies and 
quarterlies are opening to them; and 
they are applauded when they speak, 
sing or dance. “But New Negro? 
Hardly!” 

The same issue of Social Forces 
carries a report by Guy B. Johnson on 
the “Stock-Taking Conference on the 
Negro” held at Durham, North Caro- 
lina, December 7-9, 1927. The con- 
ference was attended by Negro church- 
men, educators, journalists, social 
workers, manufacturers, business men, 
professional men—all types of workers 
—and was successful in stimulating 
thought upon the progress and status 
of the Negro. 

Perhaps one of the most sagacious 
articles we have found on “The Race 
Problem in South Africa” appears in 


(Will you please turn to page 213) 
211 










THE FAR HORIZON 


5G 


A POET TO A POET 


REGORY O’CONNELL, a 


Canadian poet, writes: 
I have just read “Color”, that power- 


ful book of poems from the genius- 


guided pen of Countée Cullen. No book 
of poetry has yet given me such pleasure, 
insight, and sheer joy. The poetic logic 
and philosophy of his verse is so happily 
wedded to beauty that his message 
struck me as irresistible. There is a 
grand ring to it. 


A little result of my reading this 
book is the poem I send you herewith. 
Cullen has moved me to write it. 


IF BEAUTY IS SKIN DEEP 


Beauty is skin deep. Base lie, 
You cause the poet’s heart to cry, 
And through his mind to seep 
Rivulets of words that weep 

On pages ’neath this pen. 

While winds whip the sea, when 
Dark clouds o’ercast the sky, 

No blue is seen by the eye. 


MORGAN (COLLEGE 


John O. Spencer, President 


John W. Haywood, A.M., S.T.D., Dean 


LOCATION:—College town between North 
and South. 

COURSES:—Semester Credit System. A.B., 
B.S., and B.S. in Education degrees. 
Advanced courses in Education Certifi- 
cates for high school teaching. 

RATING:—Accredited by the Association of 
Colleges and Preparatory Schools for the 
Middle States and Maryland, by the 
State Board of Education in Maryland, 
and other States. 

POLICY :—Co-educational. 

FACULTY:—University trained specialists. 

SITE:—Eighty-five acres, beautiful scenery, 
athletic fields. 

DORMITORIES:—Equipped and supervised. 

SUMMER SCHOOL:—(1928) Six weeks, 
June 25th to August 3rd. 

Soa eoaas OPEN:—September 23, 


REGISTRATION :—Sept. 23rd and 2th, 1927. 


INFORMATION :—Address Edward N. Wil- 
son, Registrar, Morgan College, Balti- 
more, Md 


Wiley College 


MARSHALL, TEXAS 
M. W. DOGAN, President 
H. J. MASON, Executive Secretary 


Ideals, Traditions, Standards of the Finest Quality. 
Faculty composed of high grade teachers. 

Maintains following departments: 

College, Senior High School, Extension, Correspon- 

dence, Music, Commerce, Home Economics, 

tion for Study of Prohibition and the 
research 


ty phases, 

opportunity to students for train- 
ing in qualities of leadership. 
Excellent fine College atmos- 
phere, wholesome student activities. 
Championship debating and athletic teams. 
Graduates admitted on approval to best universities. 
Diploma recognized in number of states. 


For further information, write the Dean or 
REGISTRAR. 


But, living in the mind, 

Is that blue it can not find, 

While Sight is lost in the storms 
Of nature’s outer forms. 


If beauty is skin deep— 
Then brain and soul are dead. 


Shall color paint the mind 

When seen by Sight, who’s blind? 
Does color touch the heart 

Where Beauty’s visions start? 

Do birds of brightest plumage sing? 
Does color weight.the eagle’s wing? 


If beauty is skin deep— 
Then life itself has fled. 

THE MEANEST MAN 
AMES WELDON JOHNSON 


writes in the May American Mer- 


cury: 


The meanest aspect of race prejudice 


is demonstrated by the person who goes 
about injecting the virus into other peo- 


Rust College 


GOING TO COLLEGE? 
Come to Rust College—Beautifully 
Located. Students from 
Fourteen States 


%, 


ele 


College of Liberal Arts, Standard 
Normal, Home Economics, Music, 
Junior and Senior High Schools. 


Efficient Faculty. New Equipment fer 
Laboratories, Enlarged Library. 
Rates Reasenable 


For further information write 


President L. M. McCoy 
Holly Springs Mississippi 


Allen University 
Columbia, S. C. 
A Co-Educational Institution 


Offering Courses in 
THE JUNIOR COLLEGE FOR TEACHERS 
ARTS AND SCIENCES 


THEOLOGY MUSIC COMMERCE 
HOME ECONOMICS 
TEACHER TRAINING A SPECIALTY 
DEGREES: A.B., B.D., Th.B., 
A.B. in Education 

Approved by the State of South Carolina. Aided 
by the Slater Fund and the General Education 
Boerd. Facilities increased this yeer. 


DAVID H. SIMS, President 


BISHOP JOHN HURST, 
Chairman Trustee Board 


ple. Suppose a man does need rag. 
prejudice to bolster up his own self. 
esteem and sense of superiority, yet why 
must he consider it his duty to go around 
administering his nostrum to those who 
are getting on very well without it? | 
grant him his need but protest against 
his acting on the assumption that every- 
body else lacks what he lacks. The pro. 
fessional Southerner argues that anti- 
Negro prejudice is absolutely necessary 
for the preservation of Southern white 
civilization—whatever that may be 
worth—and there is a certain logic in 
what he says; for, given a fair chance, 
the Negro would make some changes in 
Southern white civilization and would 
at the same time, I think, make some 
improvements, But what logical reason 
can the professional Southerner give for 
crusading for anti-Negro prejudice like 
a good Mussulman carrying the faith of 
Islam by fire and sword to all the world? 
What is it in him that makes the sight 
of a solitary Negro sitting in a cafe in 
Paris or Berlin allow him no peace of 


HARTSHORN [MEMORIAL 
COLLEGE 


Richmond, Va. 


NOW—An Academy 


Eventually—A College for 
t he Separate 
Education of 


Young Women. 


This institution which has been set apart for 
the separate education of young women era 
since its founding in 1883, will, in the immediate 
future, devote every energy upon grade, and, espe 
cially, academic work only, since college work 
has been discontinued for the present. 
accredited high schoel by the State of Virginia, 
and offers two courses: a General Course and & 
College Preparatory Course which will admit to 
any college. 


Hartshorn offers, besides its pure scholastic cut- 
riculum, a home influence where the development 
of Christian character is the fundamental purpee. 


Send for a catalogue to the President. 


DAVID G. MULLISON, Pres. 
RICHMOND, VA. 


THE CHEYNEY TRAINING 


SCHOOL FOR TEACHERS 
(A STATE NORMAL SCHOOL) 


CHEYNEY, PA. 


A PENNSYLVANIA State Normal Schod 
offering, in addition to the regular Normal 
Academic Course of two years, prof 
three courses in Home 

Shop 

A diploma from any of these courses makes 4 
graduate eligible to teach in the public schools 
of Pennsylvania. 


For further information and catalog, writ 


LESLIE PINCKNEY HILL, Principal 
CHEYNEY, PA. 


















ANTED EVERYWHERE 
eds 
Downingtown Industrial 
and Agricultural School 


DOWNINGTOWN, PA. 


ision of the Pennsyl- 
(Under the Supervisnpite Instruction.) 










| 























d race: 

1 self. i training 00d, wiris" over thirteen years ef 858 
yet why Healthy Climate Outside of, City 

— fs odour, ge, Sang are 
nae = a write 

f y rther information 

against i “T HN. WARING, JR. Prineipal 
t every- 
he pro- 
at anti- z 
ecessary The Lincoln School 
= for Nurses 
logic in in the City of New York 

chance, offers to young colored women having 
anges in completed 2 four year high school and 
1 would holding a diploma, a three years’ course 
k : of instruction in nursing. 

7 a | Capacity of hospital—420 beds. 
give for . For information apply to: 

dice like & Superintendent of Nurses 

faith of © MISS S. J. FORD 
e world? ’ hool for N 
rhe sight Lincoln School for Nurses 
1 café in New York, N. Y. 

peace of 


e CoLorED DoLLs 
2) AND NOVELTIES 


Pretty Light-Brown and 
Mulatto Dolls with Real Hu- 


to es. 
gre, 100 other novelties. 
ee Catalog. 


18 inches, $5.50 onoh, $42. dez. 
23 imohes, $7.50 cach, $49. dez. 
30 Inches, $11.98 each, $88. doz. 


AGENTS WANTED 


BETHEL MFG. CO. 


Dept. C. 91 South St. JAMAICA, N. Y. 












LIVINGSTONE COLLEGE 
An “A” Class College 
Fouxpzp sy J. C. PRICE 


SALISBURY, N. C. 


- EDUCATIONAL 
Y RE-ORGANIZED 
ERY STRONG FACULTY 
Offers the Following Courses: 


TEROLOGICAL Hics Scoot 
Lipmmat Arts ann Sciences 
Domestic Arts AND SCIENCES 

Commencta. Music TEAcHER TRAINING 


4 of Liberal Training with i 
ei decent oA Dicttne 
All Athletics 
For Further Information Address 


oJ. » President 
dames Edward Mason, ‘Financial Secretary 








Sci 






ap CRISIS June, 1928 





Judson Douglas Wetmore 


Attorney at Law 


1440 Broadway 
New York 


(Telephone Lackawanna 5494-5) 


Member of all courts of New 
York State and of the Supreme 
Court of the United States, will 
lend money on Ist, 2nd and 8rd 
mortgages. Real estate of all 
= ought, exchanged and 
sold. 





1882 1927 


LANE COLLEGE 


Jackson, Tennessee 


A GROWING College with a splendid his- 
tory and a bright future. It offers modern 
ses in Collegiate, Th usical, 
ollege_ Preparatory, Teachers taining, 
Home Economics and Pre-Medical subjects. 


Proper standards of conduct as well as 
scholarship are maintained. Well equipped 
laboratories, dormitories with modern conveni- 
ences and facilities under Jostive Christian 
influences are supported. For further infor- 
mation address 


J. F. LANE, President, Jackson, Tennessee. 





Haven 
Teachers College 


Teachers College Conservatory ef Mus’ 
Senior High Schoel School ef Business 
Junier High Seheol School ef Heme Economies 
Training School 


Accredited Summer School for Teachers 
Beautiful ——— Campus 
veniences 
ra 
Department of cal Education 


intra-mural and inter-collegiate athletics 
Terms Reasonable 
For catalog or further information address 


J. Beverty F. SuHaw, President 
MERIDIAN, MISSISSIPPI 





Florida Normal and 


Collegiate Institute 


ST. AUGUSTINE, FLORIDA 
(The Ancient City of Sunshine Land) 


Junior HicH 
Senior HicH 
TEACHER TRAINING 
Junior CoL.tece Courses 
Pre-MEDICAL AND VOCATIONAL CouRSES 


For further information address 


NATHAN W. COLLIER, Pres. 





STORER COLLEGE 
HARPERS FERRY, W. VA. 


Magnificent location of race scenic and historic interest. Junior College, Normal, High 


Courses, Music, Domestic Art, Religious influences, Non-sectarian. 
_ Anthony Hall being rebuilt and ready September 1. Funds for a fine new Domestic 
tence Building provided and soon to be erected. 
For Catalog, address Registrar. 





mind until he has put forth every effort 
to have the black man kicked out? I 
admit he is a fanatic, but I also insist 
he is a vulgarian and a bounder. 


BUNK 
HE Haldeman - Julius 


writes: 

As yet the Negro race is far more 
laden with bunk than the white race— 
bunk of all sorts and descriptions. Par- 
ticularly, of course, religious bunk. All 
the religious superstitions cherished by 
white people—and then some!—are held 
even more vigorously and intensely by 
colored people. And in time of trial 
there is nothing on earth in which the 
colored man puts less faith or on which 
he puts less reliance, than the Christian 
church. No class turns more swiftly 
from the colored man in trouble than 
white ministers. 


W eekly 


The Browsing Reader 
(Continued from page 211) 


the International Review of Missions 
for April. W. Aidan Cotton says that 
he does not ask that Africa shall be 
abandoned entirely to the Africans; 
but he thinks it would have been wiser 
if the British Commonwealth had di- 
rected emigration toward the empty 
spaces of Canada and Australia until 
the time approached that the relations 
of the primary races of the world were 
clearer than they are today. 


Raymond L. Buell writes on “The 
Destiny of East Africa” for the April 
number of Foreign Affairs. The move- 
ment for white settlement in East and 
South Africa, he says, has acquired 
importance only in the Union, Rho- 
desia and Kenya. ‘The settlers of 
Kenya, supported by England, are aim- 
ing to create a new dominion stretch- 
ing from the Zambesi to the Nile. The- 
oretically, under the Treaty of Ver- 
sailles and under a mandate from the 
League of Nations, the British Gov- 
ernment is pledged to advance the so- 
cial progress of the natives. But the 
Colonial office, even though it is re- 
sponsible to Parliament for the ful- 
fillment of obligations, does pretty 
much as it pleases with native prob- 
lems, for it knows that no parliament 
will vote a ministry out of office on a 
colonial issue. 


Mr. Buell also discusses “Mr. Fire- 
stone’s Liberia” in the International 
Relations Section of The Nation for 
May second. He says by accepting 
the Firestone concession and loan, 
Liberia has forestalled aggression from 
England and France and has stabilized 
American interests; but unless the, 
State Department of the United Statés 
departs radically from the policy it has 


213 


1 
i 
i 
f 
} 


WHERE TO STOP 


THE CRISIS Directory of De- 
pendable and Clean Hotels. No 
hotel will be listed here which 
is not recommended by our 
friends. If complaints are re- 
ceived, the hotel will be denied 


further advertising space. 


COLUMBUS, OHIO 
The Plaza Hotel 


Modern conveniences, superior service and reasonable 
rates. We cater to the traveling public. 


Telephone, Adams 9378 
LONG STREET AT HAMILTON AVENUE 


YOUNG MEN! 


When in Chicago stay at the Y. M. C. A. Com- 
fortable rooms, cafeteria, gymnasium, natato- 
rium. Employment Bureau for members. 


For further information address 


Y. M. C. A. 


3763 Wabash Avenue CHICAGO 


Visit 


THE Y.W.C. A. 


2460 Welton Street 
Denver, Colorado 


Rooms Registry for Denver 
and Colorado Springs 


Residence and Tea Room 


Beautiful Camp Nizhoni in the Heart 
of the Rocky Mountains 


THE CRISIS 
proposes to feature and expand 
this column. Will our friends 
write us of their experience and 
recommend botels in all leading 


cities? 


LADY LOVE 
FIVE-PIECE 
TOILET SET 
} This wonderful five-piece 


item is in a handsome 
- wrapper or 5 
ae) assembled in an attrac- 
tive box. This five-piece 
set will be forwarded to 
you for only $1 


| 147No. Western Ave. 
Chicago, Iil. 


adopted in Latin America, it will soon 
find itself involved in defending Amer- 
ican capital in Liberia. 


The axiom “I am my brother’s 
keeper” finds reason enough for its 
existence in an article in The Literary 
Digest for April 28 which says there 
are “No Jim Crow Laws for Germs”. 
The lack of sanitation in a colored 
quarter often means disease in the bor- 
dering districts. Therefore, states the 
article, if only for purely selfish rea- 
sons, the general health, and sanita- 
tion of Negro districts should be safe- 
guarded, for “Negroes may be success- 
fully segregated, but germs laugh at 
barriers”. 

An interesting article on the “14th, 
15th and 18th Amendments” by Sid- 
ney Southerland appears in Liberty for 
April 21. Mr. Southerland quotes sev- 
eral cases in the South involving the 
legal rights of the Negro and concludes 
that the letter of the law is usually 
carried out even if the spirit is always 
violated. 

The first number of Africa, the 
journal of the International Institute 
of African Languages and Cultures, 
made its appearance in January. It is 
a large publication and academic in 
spirit. The first issue carried a de- 
tailed article on “African Negro Mu- 
sic’ by E. M. von Hornbostel, in 
which the harmony, tonality and 
rhythm of African and European mu- 
sic is discussed and compared. Mr. 
von Hornbostel says that African mu- 
sic is not conceivable without dancing, 
African rhythm without drumming, 
nor are. forms of African song con- 
ceivable without antiphony. 

“Segregation of Negroes at the 
Evangelistic Meeting of Billy Sunday 
in St. Louis!” A blatant, red head- 
line this! Even at the foot of the 
cross, we kneel apart—a dark, elusive 
throng. William Stewart Nelson in 
The Sphere for April discusses “Chris- 
tianity and the American Negro”, and 
comes to the conclusion that the 
Church is ceasing to be the most in- 
fluential institution among Negroes be- 
cause of the gross injustices perpe- 
trated on them in this Christian coun- 
try. 

Zora Neale Hurston in the May 
W orld Tomorrow tells “How it Feels 
to be Colored Me” in an amusing, yet 
inherently earnest article. Miss Hurs- 
ton says that she is not “tragically col- 
ored”—that there is no mysterious sor- 
row lurking behind the laughter in her 
eyes; but that she wears her race in- 
telligently—lightly—like a gorgeous 
shawl—a clinging thing, body-molded, 
yet easily flung to vagrant winds. 

Marvel Jackson 


THE ALLIED ARTS STUDIO 


BOSTON, MASS. 
Special Summer Study 


Five-week term—June 25 to July 39 


A Summer Institute of The Little 
Voice arpenee, Diction and Expreaaane 
terpretative ancing, Experimental “des. 
matic work-shop, Costuming, Drawing and 
Design. 


For further information address 
MAUD CUNEY HARE, Director 
ALLIED ARTS STUDIO 

Gainsboro Bldg., 295 Huntin. 
Opposite N. E. Guaertang 
BOSTON, MASS. 


Itis the Duty of 
Human Beings 


to be attractive 
The EAST INDIA HAIR 
GROWER will help you by increas. 
ing the strength and natural health 
and beauty of your hair. 


TF your Hair is Dry and Wiry or if 
you are bothered with Falling Hair, 
Dandruff, Itching Scalp or any Hair 
Trouble, we want you to try a jar of 


EAST INDIA HAIR GROWER. 
The remedy contains medical properties 
that go to the roots of the Hair, stimu- 
late the skin, helping nature do its work. 
Leaves the hair soft and silky. Per- 
fumed with a balm of a thousand flow- 
ers. The best known remedy for Heavy 
and Beautiful Black Eye-Brows. Also 
restores Gray Hair to its Natural Color. 
Can be used with Hot Iron. 


PRICE SENT BY MAIL, St. 
1@c Extra for Postage 


AGENTS OUTFIT 
1 Hair Grower, 1 Temple Oil, 1 Sham- 
poo. 1 Pressing Ol, 1 Face Cream and 
Direction for Selling, $2.00. 25¢ Bxte 
for Postage. 


Ss. D. LYONS 


316 N. Central, Dept. B. 
OKLAHOMA CITY, OKLA. 


or Commercial her. You can learn 
:¢home or in our New York Studios. Spare or full time, 
N.Y. institute of Photography, 10 W. 33rdSt.,N.Y.D 


Tue Crisis 





iry or if 
ng Hair, 
ny Hair 
a jar of 
-OWER. 
roperties 
ir, stimu- 
its work. 
ry. Per. 
and 

or Heavy 
ys. Also 
ral Color. 





eee ray ne 


ola Time Bar tisu’ 


4 


2 = 
BY REV. R. Ms MASSEY = 


The well-known Reverend Massey has put lots of inspiration into this a. 


Paramount Record No. 12618, “Old Time Baptism,” parts l and 2, ———__ 

You will rejoice as you hear those who are being baptized profess their faith in 

the Lord, and you can’t help but feel uplifted and rane for having this beautiful and inspiring record in 
your home. Ask your dealer for No. 12618, or send us the coupon. 


12618—Old Time Baptism, Part 1, and Old Time 
Py rege Part 2; Sermons by Rev. R. M. Massey. 


12621—I ps Join ¢ Band and Wade In smnes Date To Rest Where Jesus Is and Been 
The ad Se be Ba; tized, Lincoln Four All The Day, Instrumental Trio Acc. by 
Guana te: Prof. C. H. Pace, Director. ae aggart. 

12589—I Have Anchored My Soul and King Jesus, Stand By Me, Norfolk Jubilee Quar. 

12585— Where Shall I Be and He Arose From The Dead, Deacon L.J.Bates;Guitar Acc. 

12440—I Know I Got Religion and The Funeral Train A-Coming, Rev. J. M. Gates 

onenniianie His Congregation. 
ae Me and Lord’s Gonna Move This Wicked Race, 
Le win iebllee uartette ~ 
12237—Enckiel Saw De Wheel and Crying Holy Unto The Lord, Norfolk Jubilee / 
artette 
42234—Where Shall I Be and I’m Gonna Build Right On Dat Shore, / 
Norfolk Jubilee Quartette 
12416—After A While and Baptize Me, Sermons by Rev.J.M Gates 


SEND NO MONEY?! If your dealer is out of the records you Laboratories 
want, send us the coupon below. Pay postman 75 conte 6 for each 22 eee 
record, plus small C O D. fee when he — records. We pay pad Ratan, Ne: 

postage on 


of two or more records. Send me the records 
checked bel 
75 cents each. 


ys ise {31a 


: 


eoeTwaw awa ewe e ew eee — o_o 


Ri 


12611 12416 

















POSITIVELY NOTHING LIKE IT! 


Of all the preparations you may have used for the hair, positively, none are 
so beneficial as this world renowned product of our laboratories. Madam C. J. 
Walker’s Wonderful Hair Grower is no slicker, straightener, nor mere top 
dressing; it is a specially prepared food. Used according to directions, it will 
relieve itching scalp, thin and falling hair; combat disease, invigorate the scalp 
and grow the hair long and thick. 


By its extraordinary penetrating power, Madam C. J. Walker’s Wonderful 
Hair Grower reaches the base of hair troubles and scalp disorders, corrects 
them; revives, enriches and invigorates the scalp, thus aiding it to send forth 


a new hair growth. 


50 cents per large box 
Everywhere 


Go to your nearest Madam C. J. Walker Agent, Druggist, or write 
to the MME. C. J. WALKER MFG. CO., INDIANAPOLIS, IND. 
Obtain a box of this guaranteed preparation and start using it to- 
night. Your scalp will feel the difference; your hair will become 
naturally pretty. 


MADAM C. J. WALKER’S 


WONDERFUL HAIR GROWER 
“25 Years the Standard” 














